The administration is looking for that
last bit of pressure to get these deals
where they want them to be.
This is a perpetual negotiation that
we'll continue to see unfold.
This is President Trump at his best
bringing the pressure and supporting his
negotiators.
The market is trying to operate like
this is going to be a nothing burger,
but we are seeing tariff rates go up. As
the days and weeks accumulate, we're
going to get greater certainty on what
the trade policy posture is going to be.
This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, the trade deadline slides.
The president will also sign an
executive order delaying the July 9th
deadline to August 1st. So the
reciprocal tariff rate or these new
rates that will be provided in this
correspondence to these foreign leaders.
There will be additional letters in the
coming days.
President Trump's new tariff threats
look just like the old tariff threats.
As the European Union rushes to put
together a deal before the new deadline,
Secretary Besson is preparing to meet
with China for another round of talks.
Similar tariffs, very different price
action. This is a market that has the
picture. This is a negotiation. It's
escalate to deescalate. There's sort of
a fool me once, shame on you, fool me
twice, shame on me because this is a
market that has seen the story before.
At each deadline becomes another delay
for this perpetual policy of
uncertainty. And that is the key
question that I have. How do companies
and how do investors adopt to adapt to
that type of environment? I
totally agree with you. I think two big
disappointments for a lot of us. One,
July 9th is not going to be a clearing
event. this is going to continue. And
two, if you were hoping for cuts from
the Federal Reserve, this makes it
harder for this Federal Reserve to cut
interest rates.
Absolutely. What we've heard from Jay
Powell time and time again is we don't
know the tariff rates. There's a lot of
uncertainty. So, it's making us
basically say frozen in place when it
comes to policy. Well, guess what? How
difficult is September going to be for
them to potentially cut, which a lot of
people were excited about if we're not
going to get the tariff rates at this
moment? We think August 1st. And if you
see April 2nd become July 9th, July 9th
become August 1st, who's to say that
August 1st also might not slip.
For these threats to be credible, you
have to believe there could be some
follow through. And based on the price
action of this morning and yesterday,
it's difficult to believe that a lot of
people think there's going to be follow
through.
A note from Croup coming out, we still
expect a deal with South Korea. South
Korea saying, "We view this as a
negotiation and we'll be at the table."
You've got Japan saying, "We're not
going to take a bad deal." You have a
European Union about to maybe make a
deal in the next 48 hours, whatever that
means. And then the details of course
have to get worked out. There's a key
question here about what the final
outcome looks like and whether we have
adjusted to this idea of a base tariff
rate that is materially higher to pay
for the deficit as sort of a policy, not
necessarily some sort of negotiation.
Also, the president's rhetoric last
night was very wishy-washy. Quote, I
would say firm, but not 100% firm. If
they call up and say, "We'd like to do
something a different way," we're going
to be open to that. But essentially,
that's the way it is right now. If you
want to play ball, you have to. This is
what you have to pay. Right now, with
these 14 countries, which basically
essentially the tariff rates did not
change, just the dates. He is in
negotiating mode. I'm waiting for the
other deals to potentially drop with
these countries like India, like the
European Union, like Switzerland that we
have seen the United States deeply
engaged at the negotiating table.
So far, not much changed in the equity
market at least this morning. unchanged
on the S&P 500. Lots to get through this
hour. Coming up on the program, we'll
catch up with Ed Yardeni of Yardeni
Research as stocks look to bounce back.
The former NEC deputy director Everett
Eisenstat as President Trump buys time
and Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan on the
odds of a September Fed rate cut. We
begin this hour with stocks little
changed as traders face down the latest
tariff threats. Edard Denny of Yardeni
Research is optimistic, writing, "We
tend to be permables because there are
so many more perma bears. We focus on
the positives and frequently find them
to be more compelling than the
negatives. Ed joins us now for more. Ed,
welcome to the program, sir. Let's talk
about these tariffs. First up, the
tariffs themselves and the threats look
very similar to what we heard on April
2nd, but the price action is so
different, Ed. What explains that?
Well, liberation too is uh you know,
been there, done that, done that. That's
really what's going on here is the
market figures. This as you, as you
folks said, this is uh you know, the art
of the deal. its negotiations. Let's not
forget that Trump's background is
commercial real estate uh and
residential real estate in New York City
and uh you know they do a lot of
negotiating there between uh other
developers and politicians and labor
unions and they scream and they shout
but all all that happens all that
bullying and
you know negotiating occurs behind
closed doors. Uh Trump has taken this to
another level and to a global level of
negotiating publicly with uh leaders
around the world on trade. So it's not a
pretty thing to watch. But I think the
markets have figured out that uh this is
going to get resolved in the next few
months. It has to be because otherwise
Trump's going to really risk losing the
midterm elections uh for the Republican
party and that's not going to be good.
What if it doesn't Ed? What if it isn't
resolved? How do you think markets
handle an extended period of ambiguity
and what would you expect corporations
to tell us in the upcoming earning
season?
Well, I I think first of all when it
comes to uh all this uh impact on the
United States uh so far it's been
remarkable the resilience of the economy
has been absolutely remarkable. I I've
been in the resilient camp and I'm I'm
in awe at how well the economy is
hanging in there, how well consumer
spending has been hanging in there and
I'm also in awe about inflation.
Inflation really hasn't picked up. Uh
some of the indicators for July suggest
that it's actually going to be pretty
close to zero during during that month.
It's a little early in the in the month,
but there is sort of a now cast for
that. Uh so all in all, I think uh the
US stock market is doing what it's
supposed to do. It's supposed to take
the long view and the long view is still
quite optimistic I think uh with the the
technology revolution we're in the
digital revolution we're in and likely
to continue to have very positive
impacts on uh the US economy and
productivity
for a permable your recent note was
pretty bearish and it really focused in
on the labor market and the fact that
private industry payrolls rose only
74,000 which was the lowest in your data
going back to 2004 four and this points
to something happening under the hood
that isn't the sort of equilibrium that
can keep on going for a longer period of
time.
Why do you stay bullish even with that
factor?
Yeah. Well, you know, to maintain my
credibility, I I do make sure to
constantly write about what the bears
are saying. And uh I was actually a
little surprised that there was a more
bearishness uh for the economy anyways
and the stock market about the
employment numbers that came out on
Thursday. uh and they were they were
weak. Uh they you know when you take a
government employment and a lot of that
was education employment. Maybe we're
hiring uh a lot of uh teachers and
getting them ready for the new school
year. Maybe we you know the schools have
been overwhelmed with uh kids of migrant
workers and so they've had to load up.
So maybe that's that's a real number.
but take out government employment and
we're up only a little over 70,000 in
non-farm payrolls. So, I I I did point
all that out, but then I put a positive
spin on it and concluded, you know, this
the economy has been stress tested by
tariff man by all this tariff turmoil
that we've had and yet it's passing the
tests. the banks have passed the tests.
Uh and so, you know, I kind of stick
with the data and the data uh on balance
I think suggests that uh we probably
will see some better employment numbers
and better economic growth in the second
half of the year.
Just the counterpoint to this and I can
already feel people rolling their eyes
at sort of bearish counterpoint. Uh
there is a fear that the market isn't
responding to bearish news that there
isn't sort of some sort of sell-off that
there isn't a response function because
people have been trained not to be
bearish because the bulls have won out
again and again and people just keep
leaning on all the liquidity in the
market but a lot of that liquidity is
going to have to go to financing some of
the fiscal deficit around the world of
developed markets. How much does that
factor in? How much do you start to
watch that and say hold on a second
something could be brewing here?
Well, you know, you can uh look at the
fundamentals. You can, I guess, put
together a list of everything that uh
that's bearish that should take the
stock market down. And then you can also
look at the stock market and say, why
isn't it going down? And I think uh
first quarter earnings were much better
than expected. Second quarter earnings,
it's a layup. They're going to be better
than expected because expectations are
so low. And so I think that's going to
be quite good. And then we are seeing uh
that the president's tax bill was
passed. Uh it's an extension of the tax
cut which is is bullish for the economy.
Uh in addition um from what I understand
if you want to build a data center uh
you can build it and depreciate the
whole thing, expense the whole thing uh
in the in the first year. I think I got
that right, but I'm still checking that
out. But I I think in other words,
there's a lot in that bill that's uh
that is in fact quite stimulative. Uh we
also the president has in fact uh
brought a lot of money committed to
onshoring in the United States. There's
there's a lot of positives going on.
Ed, when it comes to what's going on in
the financial markets, Liz Liz Anne
Saunders of Charles Schwab contemplates
this in the Financial Times. On top of a
Trump put, she says maybe there's this
potential for a Trump call. Do you think
that means that we potentially get a
more aggressive White House when it
comes to policy?
Well, uh I think uh certainly the
Treasury seems to be on on the verge of
uh
financing more of the debt with Treasury
bills, which I think is why the bond
market uh yield hasn't gone straight up.
It's been going up somewhat here. And I
I think it's still consistent with my
view that the bond yields should be
trading around 4 a.5% through the end of
the year. So I really really don't have
a problem with this back up in bond
yields the past couple of days. But uh
the Treasury seems inclined based on
what Trump recently said to finance a
lot more in the Treasury bill market
than wait until they have their loyalist
as the new Fed chair and hope that the
loyalist can get interest rates down.
So, I think we're a lot of the action is
going to be um on how we're going to
refinance the debt.
Ed, where are the bond vigilantes? You
coined that term. A lot of people have
been saying they're in hiding. They're
not doing their role. They're not
picketing. We're not seeing those
protests. Are they going to come show up
or is that sort of an outdated term?
No, I don't think it's outdated. Uh
it's, you know, I I I coined it back in
1983, so we're talking about it now.
It's it's still relevant. Uh however the
important thing to recognize is the bond
vigilantes are not the only force uh in
the uh in the bond market. There's the
Fed, there's uh the Treasury now and of
course foreign investors. U they're all,
you know, important influencers of what
happens in the bond market. I think the
bond market is it's hard to really short
bonds here when you you've got the
president of the United States uh on Fox
News saying that um uh he's going to to
finance
the the next several rounds of uh of
debt, government debt, that he's going
to refinance it with T bills. Uh we saw
what happened back in uh November 1st of
2023 when uh Treasury Secretary Janet
Yalen at that time did the exact same
thing and the bond deal which got up to
5% in late October just took a dive on
that news. So it's uh it's hard to be a
bond vigilante when you're fighting uh
the Treasury.
They are not in a position to extend
duration right now. That's for sure. Ed,
thanks for your time, sir. Ed Yardeni of
Yardeni research looking at the tenure
this morning slightly softer yields
higher by three or four basis points
let's call this 442 just on the equity
market thinking about earning season
coming up Max Kentner of HSBC put this
one out yesterday the bar to beat is
very low going into earning season the
big story in July not this week's tariff
deadline it's the start of the reporting
season next week any dip this week has
to be bought very quickly
July 15th kicking off with JP Morgan and
the bank earnings a lot People are
expecting the earnings to be just like
Edard Denny said, much better than
expected as they were in the prior
quarter and how much of a boost that
gives really is that low bar that a lot
of people are saying is easy to step
over.
Equities doing okay so far this morning
just about unchanged on the S&P 500 with
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Lizzie Burden. Hey Lizzie.
Hey John. President Trump delayed
imposing higher tariffs on US imports
until August 1st while sending letters
to countries detailing the levies that
they'll face. The letters include 25%
tariffs on goods from Japan and South
Korea and plans for more than a dozen
other countries. The president also
teased the possibility of further talks
ahead of the new deadline. And
elsewhere, Apple's top executive in
charge of AI models is leaving the
company for Meta. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg that roaming Pang is
joining Meta's new super intelligence
team after being offered a package worth
tens of millions of dollars per year.
And President Trump says that he'll
travel to Texas on Friday to see the
devastation from flash floods which
killed at least a dozen people, a
hundred people and left dozens still
missing. The deaths include include at
least 27 children and staff from a
summer camp. Recovery teams expect to
find more victims as a search continues.
That's your brief. John
Lizzy, thank you. Appreciate the update.
More from Lizzie later this hour. Up
next on the program, the White House by
some time. The president will also sign
an executive order delaying the July 9th
deadline to August 1st. So the
reciprocal tariff rate or these new
rates that will be provided in this
correspondence to these foreign leaders.
Up next, we'll catch up with Rob Casey
of Signnum Global Advisers live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
In yesterday's session, snapping a
two-day winning streak on the S&P 500.
The biggest one-day loss going back to
midJune. This morning, not much price
action to speak of. Pretty much
unchanged on the S&P and positive by
about a tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ 100.
Under surveillance this morning, the
White House buys some time. The
president will also sign an executive
order delaying the July 9th deadline to
August 1st. So the reciprocal tariff
rate or these new rates that will be
provided in this correspondence to these
foreign leaders.
All of those, if I'm understanding
correctly, are now deferred to August
1st. Right.
Correct. There will be additional
letters in the coming days. He is
literally looking at the map and looking
at every country on the planet and
seeing where they are ripping off the
American people.
So here's the latest. The White House
confirming that President Trump delayed
increasing duties on key trade partners
until August 1, but threatened new
tariff rates on countries including
Japan and South Korea. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from Washington for
more. So Tyler, explain the difference
between what we heard yesterday and what
we saw on April 2nd.
Yeah. Hey John, good morning. Well, by
and large, the tariff rates that were
outlined in these letters to more than a
dozen countries were basically in line
with what we saw on April 2nd. Some were
marginally higher, Japan for example by
one percentage point, but many were the
same, including uh South Korea, as well
as Indonesia and uh South Africa. It is
worth pointing out that some were
actually pretty lower, including Laos
and Cambodia, the latter of which saw
the largest drop from 49 to 36% when it
comes to threatened tariffs. Now, we're
really going to be watching to see if
more countries come into this picture
and if their rates change in a
meaningful way. Bloomberg Economics says
this says that this initial wave of
tariff leathers these countries account
for about 15% of US imports. So there's
still a lot of other trading partners
out there. And you heard the White House
press secretary indicate that there
could be some more letters going forward
here. Now some of the things that we are
watching when it does come to
potentially how these tariffs could ramp
up is that all of these letters had a
few different consistencies. One is that
President Trump threatened that there
could be higher tariffs if there are
transshipipments of goods. Of course,
big questions here going forward about
how that could be enforced. And then the
second is any sort of retaliation. John,
President Trump said that the US will
just slap on an an identical rate if any
country does retaliate in response to
these letters.
Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. More from Tyler later on
this morning. Bremo the difference.
April 2nd, 24% on Japan. July 7th, 25%
on Japan. All these tiny little
differences between where we were back
then and where we are now hardly make a
difference. But there is a difference in
terms of the timing and what the market
and all of us have experienced which is
a deadline is not a deadline. And that I
think really set the tone for the path
forward.
Let's build on that conversation with
Rob Casey of Signnum looking at Terrace
and writing the following. Consensus
currently is that July 9th will simply
become August 1. However, we would
suggest being cautious around this view
and staying on guard for Tara snapback
sooner than Rob joins us now for more.
Rob, good morning.
Morning.
You said it a lot of people are feeling
it. We can just look through all of
this. Lisa explained it perfectly. Why
do you think there is a risk of actual
followthrough here?
Well, I think there's a risk of
follow-through. A because President
Trump has not gotten the concessions
that he wants in private negotiations or
in, you know, public negotiations with
posting these letters. A and he is
potentially running out of room, right?
We we may get a court decision on AIPA
this fall. Trump is essentially has the
opportunity to negotiate between now and
then. So, they're telling us they're
getting closer, right? and and maybe we
get a bunch of deals over the course of
the next week uh or or you know today.
If not, I think they probably want to
push their advantage before you know
caving or taking a step back.
What's the deciding factor that dictates
the shape of those deals? What's the
difference between coming becoming the
UK or Vietnam or Japan? What's the
difference?
Well, I think that I mean that that's
clearly an open question. What we've
seen in the UK deal, the Vietnam deal
among others is I mean frankly they're
they're not very detailed. So, I think
that the deciding factor is the, you
know, the leader on the other side of
the table is willing to accept what
President Trump wants in in broad terms,
in vague terms, uh, and may maybe
they're able to sell it to their
domestic constituency and then Trump is
able to come back to us and say, "We we
made a good deal." But that's not to say
that these are even the trade deals that
are struck, they're still not very
detailed.
When you talk about concessions the
administration is looking for, and they
haven't received them yet. What exactly?
Well, I I mean, across the board, I
think they're there really two. Trump
wants to be able to message that he's
bringing down tariff levels on on US
goods being exported elsewhere. He wants
to message that he's decreasing the
trade deficit with with individuals. I I
think that is probably the one with
individual countries. That's probably
the one that's going to get the most
play from President Trump so far because
even when he's announcing, you know, 25%
on Japan, 25% on on Korea, he's saying
these tariffs are not enough to rectify
the trade deficit. So he's still focused
on the trade deficit. He still sees it
as a problem even at these higher
levels.
When you look at things like the United
Kingdom, Vietnam, even the slew of deals
we saw in his Middle East trip, what
happened to all of them? What is the
process that's now happening behind the
scenes within the administration to
actually make sure the deals of the
details of the deals get done? Who's
working on that?
Well, I think it's it's behind the
scenes, Amory, for a reason, right?
We're not 100% sure.
Do they even have the staff? Well,
that's what I was going to say is 90
days ago we heard 90 deals in 90 days,
right? And that sounded impossible then
and clearly it was impossible, right?
Not not every country that has tariffs
to be applied, you know, today or August
1st, not every country has even had
facetime with the president's
administration. And so if you're a
country is saying we haven't even had
the chance to negotiate and now we're
getting the these tariffs slapped on at
a higher level, like what are you
supposed to do with that? So I think
it's clear that there is not the
bandwidth maybe that they had expected
because these deals aren't quite as easy
as as Trump Besson among others hoped
there might not be the bandwidth.
There's also a question about the
framework and what kind of framework
they're using to really understand what
to extract from different trading
partners. It's you know buy more rice,
buy our chickens, talk about uh you know
car exports. I mean there's this
question of raising the anti and using
it as sort of a national security tool
as well as a trade tool. Have we got any
clarity around what the framework looks
like? not a lot of clarity. I think one
thing that we can see from both the UK
and Vietnam is that President Trump
wants to come back to the US and message
that we are able to send more goods
elsewhere right and that's broadly
speaking so far I would say mostly
focused on the the US farm you know a
industry we also want to be able to sell
more cars elsewhere you know export
build up manufacturing capacity in the
US I I don't think we can forget about a
general goal of building up
manufacturing capacity in the US each
individual deal may not get us that much
closer but I think that's the overall
trend at least that President Trump is
hoping The goal is also to raise revenue
and this is sort of a key component with
the one big beautiful bill and we did
see uh the tariff revenue surge to a
record $24 billion in May. How much is
that sort of a sticking point at this
point? They kind of have to keep rates
high.
Totally. I I think it's a major
priority. Obviously obviously we don't
really hear that from the White House,
right? Because if we're talking about
tariff revenue, then we also have to be
talking about who's paying that revenue,
right? And and a lot of times, not all
the time, but a lot of times it's the
American consumer. But the truth of the
matter is on the back of one big
beautiful bill, right? We are still in a
deficit crisis. And so we have to find
money somewhere. We didn't find it in
higher taxes. We didn't find it in, you
know, reverting to pre uh Trump tax cut
levels. We're going to have to find it
elsewhere. And I just have to say, you
know, there is revenue to be had with
tariffs, of course, but there is a I
think a broader point to make from now
until August 1st. And that is if we
don't have the 145% on China, right?
Then we really are looking at only a
margin. I don't want to call it
marginal. more more than marginal, but
we're not looking at a drastic increase
in tariff levels, which means we're not
looking at a drastic increase in revenue
levels as well.
Did you mean to call it a crisis or was
that a slip?
Because in the last week, we just passed
a multi-t trillion dollar bill. It's
hard to call it a crisis down in
Washington. What makes it a crisis?
Well, it the deficit may not be in
crisis, right? Because we've run wide
deficits for quite a long time and and
we're all still standing. But the truth
of the matter is, I don't think
Republicans have a a solution to the
deficit, what they call a deficit
crisis. Trump came into Washington
describing the necessity of bringing the
deficit down. Of course, we can all sit
here and say that Democrats have have
failed to do it over the previous four
years, but it's pretty clear that
Republicans are going to fail to do it,
at least in this Congress, and I think
very likely over the course of Trump's
term.
They're certainly not behaving as if
it's a crisis in Washington.
And they just passed a bill that is
definite is deficit expansionary. The US
is going to be selling a net more than
$220 billion dollars net over the next
five weeks alone. This really raises a
question, you know, again, where are the
bond vigilantes? Are they just pegging
their hopes and dreams and the fact that
the Treasury is going to sell it all in
T bills? I guess so.
It's not in the bond market this
morning. 496 on 30s at the moment.
Yields are marginally higher by four or
five basis points on a session. Rob,
it's good to see you. Thank you, sir.
Rob Casey there of Signnum Global
Advisers. Coming up next on this
program, the former NEC deputy director
Everett Eisenstat as President Trump
signals he's open to trade negotiations.
Plus, Yhara Arnand with your morning
movers this morning as Tesla shares look
to rebound. That stock is higher by a
little more than 1%.
[Music]
Michael Zes of Morgan Stanley and so
many others absolutely nailed this. Kick
the can was the base case. Kick the can
is exactly what we got just yesterday.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 so far.
Little changed on the S&P following
yesterday's losses on the NASDAQ 100
firmer by 210 of 1% with 3 hours into
the cash open. Let's get you some
morning moves and cross over to Yhara
Arnand. Hey yhara.
Good morning John. And we start with
renewable stocks. They are lower in the
pre-market. That's because yesterday
Trump signed an executive order calling
for even tighter limits on clean energy
tax breaks. That's how those incentives
were already scaled back in his $3.4
trillion budget. So as a result, you are
seeing First Solar down 2.2%, Sunun down
5.5% while Nphase and Solar Edge are
also lower. Moving on, we have Tesla.
Worth taking a look at after the stock
fell 6.8% yesterday on that news that
Elon Musk was forming a new political
party, drawing fire from President
Trump. But today, it is bouncing back up
about 1%. I will note that the next big
catalyst for this stock is about two
weeks away on July 23rd when Tesla
reports earnings. And I want to end with
Nike. Shares are slightly lower, down
6/10en of 1%. That's after President
Trump sent letters to the likes of
Cambodia, Indonesia, and Thailand,
saying that they will see a 36% tariff
if they don't strike a trade deal with
the US. These are the exact places that
Nike and other shoe makers and apparel
makers diverted production to in order
to diversify away from China. And this
of course comes on the heels of that
Vietnam trade deal which cut expected
tariffs down to 20%. That did add some
certainty for the likes of Nike. But
this is also a company that's in the
middle of trying to stage a turnaround.
John
Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara in
the next hour. On our radar this
morning, our top story, the president
ramping up pressure on trading partners,
posting letters to several nations
threatening high tariff rates that would
go into effect on August 1st. Trump then
saying the deadline and tariff rates are
not 100% firm. So obviously what you see
right now is another fluid situation.
The dates keep changing. It was supposed
to be 90 deals in 90 days. Maybe they'll
get 90 deals in 113 days. We don't know.
What you what is obvious is that they
don't have the bandwidth. Especially
speaking to uh Rob Casey. They don't
have the bandwidth behind the scenes to
go after all of these countries at once.
We are still waiting on actual firm
deals and what the framework will look
like for these firm deals. They take a
Vietnam approach. Did they just take a
deescalation approach like they did with
China? or is there actually some sort of
deal on the margin like when it comes to
United Kingdom when they actually
discuss specific rates and agricultural
going in or out cars etc. So many
questions when it comes to what is going
on with the trade policy
for a company. What does this mean about
trying to come up with policy and
strategy going forward? How do you
invest longer term? How do you
understand where to make your goods? Do
you just expect that they're going to be
higher bills as a result of them? Do you
start charging them? Do you start
frontloading as quickly as you possibly
can in the next 3 weeks? Does a policy
of uncertainty have a drag? And that I
think is really going to be one of the
key questions.
That's the seauite. We've got to think
about the policy maker as well. We'll
find some space this morning to talk
about the Federal Reserve. whether you
think they should or shouldn't cut
interest rates. Put that to one side.
They've established their threshold to
reduce interest rates. They want to know
what the policy is. Show me the tariff
and then they want to see the outcome of
the tariffs and just wait and sit for a
little while. The fact you've extended
this from July 9th to August 1 makes it
difficult to do anything. They certainly
can't signal anything at the end of the
month because at the end of the month
they still won't know what the tariffs
are.
That's a moving goalpost. And so the
Fed's policy road map is going to have
to also be a moving goalpost because
they're going to say we have to operate
with a a modicum of uncertainty and make
that call without that data because
that's essentially what they're being
tasked to do.
Lisa mentioned the corporate response
worth going through the corporate
reaction so far. Porsche warning of a
challenging road ahead after reporting a
slowdown in US sales and persistent
weakness in the world's number two
economy, China. Global deliveries
falling 6% in the first half of the year
led by a 28% slump in the country driven
by fierce domestic competition. So
this is where it gets complicated. How
much are companies going to use tariffs
as a fig leaf to cover up a whole host
of other issues? And there are
confluence of issues in the auto sector.
Competition from China, the transition
to electric that's coming at a time
that's pretty fraught in terms of where
you get the materials in terms of the US
policies. And Porsche is at the
epicenter of all of those. in terms of
tariffs, they should be the ones to
weather it the best because ultimately
they can pass along the cost cuz if
you're buying a Porsche, you could
probably afford a couple extra thousand
dollar. So that's the reason why I'm
watching this as sort of the excuse sort
of the currency differentials that
people use sometimes or other types of
uh platitudes to cover other strategic
issues that they're facing.
You think it's fair to say for the
European brands the bigger challenge
right now is not the tariffs, it's the
competition in China?
100%. If you take a look at the exports
from China, they're not necessarily
going down. They're just not going up to
the US, but they're going up everywhere
else around the world, including to
Europe.
When you look at what China is doing in
BYD, they actually unveiled in December
a prototype that looks like the Porsche
911. It is incredible what they're
unveiling. And obviously, they're at a
cheaper cost if you're buying in China.
And that is why you see just basically
off-the-cliff sales when it comes to
Porsche.
That's the latest on Porsche. If you're
waking up this morning on your way to
school, college, whatever it might be,
and you're thinking about what to do,
earn some cash. If you want athlete
money, join Meta, going allin on efforts
to reshape its AI leadership with the
company hiring a top executive from
Apple at an offer worth tens of millions
of dollars per year. The CEO, Mark
Zuckerberg, has reportedly been heavily
involved in the recruiting process. And
we've seen headline after headline over
the past few weeks. I would just argue
that these aren't people who are, you
know, 18 and in college being looking
for a summer internship. But that said,
this is the Trojan horse. And you said
this, Amry, and I'm copying you because
I think that it's brilliant. This idea
of rather than buy one of the
competitors, just hire all of their top
talent and hire it from the weak
players. Sort of like going after blood
in the water, Apple really having
trouble getting off the ground with
their AI offerings. Well, just take
their high talent and, you know, call it
a day. And I wonder how much they're
going to benefit from that. He's gone
after the strong players, too. Yeah.
Over at Open AI. Look, I think this is
Mark Zuckerberg essentially telling us
all he sees this as a real existential
risk to his company. Winner takes all
and he's willing to pay whatever it
takes.
And he's been right. He was right with
Instagram. He was right with a whole
bunch of other acquisitions. And
frankly, a lot of people, if you take a
look at the performance of the stock,
are betting that he'll be right again.
Meta this morning in the pre-market
higher by 0.6%. We'll come back to that
story a little bit later. Let's turn
back to trade. President Trump unveing
new tariff rates on trading partners
while delaying the deadline to August 1.
The former NEC deputy director Everett
Eisenstat writing, "One thing remains
clear. The president is laser focused on
achieving balance trade through
reciprocity and committed to
aggressively using tariff authority
towards that end." Everett joins us now
for more. Everett, welcome to the
program. We're trying to understand how
different August 1 will be compared to
July 9th, which hasn't happened yet.
What will the difference actually be?
Well, good morning. I we'll we'll have
to wait and see. I think many people
believed and hoped that this July 9th uh
postponement deadline when it ended,
we'd have greater certainty and clarity
as to which countries were going to be
able to negotiate in a framework
agreement with the president and which
might get higher tariffs. And we don't
know today. We know that certain
countries will have their tariff tariff
rates set. Um there have been some
letters that have been issued. But then
again, the president reserved the right
within those letters to raise those
tariffs up and down depending upon uh
the relationship with the country. So
there's still a lot of story to be told.
There's still a lot of negotiations to
go on and we'll just have to wait and
and hopefully we'll we'll see some more
deals come out between now and and
August 1st.
I think it's fair to say it's very
ambiguous. And when you look at some of
these letters, Japan was 25%
as of yesterday for August 1st. April
2nd it was 24%. Kazakhstan was dropped
from 27% to 25%. Tunisia 28 to 25%. You
get the point. Why? Why are these rates
like a percentage or two off from April
2nd? What is the methodology behind any
of this?
I honestly I think some of the
methodology is to simplify the rates a
little bit and to put them in buckets.
And I I I I suspect that what we'll see
at the end of the day when we get a
bigger picture of how many countries um
and what the tariff rates is that
they're going to be categorized by um
were were they willing to put forth an
offer? Was the author offer made in good
faith? Um what's the trade deficit?
Obviously, that's going to be a key
factor because he cited that repeatedly
in his letters. Uh so there's a number
of tells there but we don't know and
many of these countries don't know what
they need to do or what they can do to
find a pathway to stability and that's
what they want. Um you saw with Vietnam
they agreed to a 20% tariff. Why did
they do that? Because it gave them some
predictability um for trading over the
next several years and that's something
that that's that's quite valuable.
Everett, basically what happened
yesterday is the president came out and
said everyone just gets an extension.
Why put these letters out for certain
countries?
Well, I think the reason the letters
were put out is because those countries
are the ones that he believes have some
of the most uh pernicious trade deficit
problems. And I for countries like South
Korea and Japan, those letters were
probably quite shocking. Um both
countries have uh a special national
security relationship with the United
States, have a special trading
relationship. They invest billions and
billions of dollars in in in the US
economy, create many many jobs and they
export from the United States. So I
think they both believe that they would
be treated a little bit differently and
have some dispensation. Um the letters
basically are saying look you need to
take action in the special relationship
matters but it's not enough to
discount what what the president sees as
unfair trade practices. Everett, is the
United States losing leverage as long as
this process goes on and the can keeps
getting kicked?
The more leverage we can, the leverage
matters. We do have a lot of leverage.
It's important to use it very
strategically. And one of the best ways
to use leverage is to demonstrate that
it works. And that's getting a deal
done. And a deal done that someone can
look to and say, "Oh, that's achievable.
I can do that." And it's a motivator. I
think if this continues and there's no
framework set and the tariff rates keep
being pushed down the the field which I
don't think they will be uh that does
over time lose a little bit of the
leverage and if and perhaps you know
some economies just get resigned to say
well okay this is going to be my tariff
rate um I'm going to adapt to that
because at least I know that's
predictable. So I do think that the the
leverage is something that needs to be
used and used well um because over time
if you don't use it you're going to lose
it. How much is this drawing countries
closer to the United States versus
pushing them away to form trade blocks
with one another if that's more of a
certainty?
That that was happening anyway. There
were a number of countries that were
coming together trying to form their own
uh trade u frameworks amongst
themselves. And part of the reason was
because it wasn't just President Trump.
I mean even under President Biden there
were no trade negotiations ongoing to
the United States. You may recall, you
know, prior to that, prior to the first
Trump administration, we negotiated a
flurry of trade agreements and locked in
very good outcomes with a lot of
countries. This could put forward that
kind of dynamic where countries are
looking to negotiate amongst themselves.
I do think though that the the whole
playing field has changed. The kind of
agreements they're going to negotiate
are going to be very very different than
they were say back, you know, 90s,
2000s. They're going to be more focused
on economic security, national security,
secure supply chains, and um they
probably won't be as comprehensive as
they used to be. So, the president's
definitely having a major impact on on
global trade and also um one that I
think is going to last for for for
probably decades to come.
Everett, we'll see you in about three
weeks. I hope we'll catch up soon.
Everett Eisenstein, the former NEC
deputy director, out of the deal.
exhaust the other person on the other
side of the table and they'll accept
whatever you want. I think at this point
we'd all take 10 15% and move on,
wouldn't we?
Are you talking about us being exhausted
by this process?
Investors.
Exactly.
Countries, whoever it might be.
That said, they've got to move on and
they have to understand how to protect
their industries and how much they've
created side deals with other partners
and how much does it push people to say,
look, can we really move away from China
if we're not sure what the relationship
with the United States really is going
to be?
Also, Everett was talking about how the
letters for South Korea and Japan were
quite shocking. There's another school
of thought for Japan. Actually,
President Trump did a favor to the prime
minister because they have an election
at the end of July and they could not
have a trade agreement with the United
States where they gave up key industries
like you talk about when it comes to
rice or the auto sector when you're up
against serious sensitive domestic
politics.
It's well framed in the same way the
president would nip on steel and that
situation going into his own election.
Equity futures this morning positive by
about a tenth of 1% with an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie Burden.
Hi.
Hey, John. The president also hosted
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu at the White House last night.
The Israeli leader told Trump he
nominated him for a Nobel Peace Prize.
The US is pushing for a ceasefire in
Gaza that could end more than 18 months
of fighting and see the release of the
hostages still being helped by Hamas.
And more than 100 people have been
confirmed dead in floods that tore
through central Texas over the weekend.
Local, state, and federal officials have
faced criticism in the aftermath of the
tragedy. Senator Ted Cruz downplayed
concerns that President Trump's cuts to
the National Weather Service played a
role in the failure to evacuate people.
And Novartis has won regulatory approval
for the first medicine specifically
designed to treat malaria in babies. The
drug maker says that until now, infants
were treated with tablets meant for
older children adjusted for weight. In
2023, the World Health Organization said
that there were nearly 600,000 malaria
related deaths with children under five
accounting for three and four deaths.
And that should be in my brief. John,
Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzy in the
next hour. Up next on our program, the
cost of prolonged uncertainty.
And the further we stretch out the
tariff issue, the more likely it is that
the growth issue will come first. So, we
are expecting slower growth in the third
and fourth quarters and a rate cut by
the Fed in September.
In just a moment, we'll catch up with
Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management live from New York. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
It's another sleepy start to a trading
day. Good morning to you. Equity futures
on the S&P 500 just about positive by a
tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ up by a
quarter. And the surveillance this
morning, the cost of prolonged
uncertainty.
And the further we stretch out the
tariff issue, the more likely it is that
the growth issue will come first. So we
are expecting slower growth in the third
and fourth quarters and a rate cut by
the Fed in September. Two tens could
move up another 30 40 basis points
pretty easily. There is room for further
steepening of the curve. My concern is
it might be more of a bare steepening um
at this stage of the game.
So here's the latest this morning. US
Treasury yields rising as President
Donald Trump extends the tariff deadline
to August 1. Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan
Asset Management writing the path of
lease resistance for the shape of the
curve in both the US and Europe
continues to be steeper. Kelsey joins us
now for more. Cassie, good morning.
Good morning.
We'll get to the yield curves in just a
moment. I just want to talk to you about
something Lisa mentioned earlier this
hour. What is the price of this
prolonged uncertainty moving this
deadline from July 9th to August 1? I
mean I think the price is probably a
subtrend growth environment which is the
environment that we kind of expect for
the upcoming quarters. One where you
have some things that are pointing to
you know upside risk to growth
particularly the one big beautiful bill.
On the other hand you have the tariff
risks and the tariff revenue which are
we would view it as a tax and these
things are kind of offsetting.
Ultimately it's kind of an environment
where you're treading water. Um, it's
the same way that we describe the labor
market, the low higher, lowf fire
environment. One where you're just kind
of stuck um in the middle.
Is the Fed stuck in the middle as well?
Yeah, I mean, I think that's probably a
good way to describe where they are
right now. Um, we don't think that
they're going to be cutting rates in
July. We've seen that repriced from
about a 20 to 30% probability down to
zero. That was a function of the July
jobs report which while weaker under the
surface uh you know the headline jobs
number around 150,000 the unemployment
rate ticking down to 4.1 you kick the
can down the road on that you know the
next question is what are they going to
do uh in September uh you know we see
the dynamics in terms of inflation and
growth and we hear the commentary from
chair Powell I think it's actually been
increasingly clear which is that if it
wasn't for the concerns around inflation
and tariffs, the Fed would be cutting
already.
It's sort of this interesting moment
where people are looking at the long end
of the yield curve and saying it should
be steeper because of deficits, because
of potentially a prolonged level of
inflation and then you have the Treasury
Department saying we're just going to
issue and finance our entire deficit on
the front end. Can they do that? Would
that be sort of accepted by markets?
Yeah, I actually think they can do that.
Um, so we've gone through and we've run
the analysis in terms of how much
additional supply do they need and can
they fund that exclusively through
bills. Ultimately, that is going to
slowly reduce the weighted average
maturity of their portfolio and going to
increase their rollover risk over time,
but we do think that they'll be able to
keep coupon sizes the same and increase
bill supply at least for the next two
years. Um, and it's that's a trend that
you're not just seeing in the US, by the
way, right? You're seeing that active
management by the debt management
offices, not just in the US, in the UK,
in Japan, they're all kind of dealing
with similar issues.
Is this a backdoor way of monetizing the
debt? Is this a backdoor way of saying
we're going to issue on the front end
and oh no, by this way, we're going to
pressure the Federal Reserve to drop
rates as low as possible so that we can
reduce our funding costs for the
indefinite future.
I wouldn't put it that way. What I would
say is, you know, what we're shocked
transitioning to and we've been
transitioning to is an environment where
you started with mostly price
insensitive holders of fixed income to
mostly price sensitive holders of fixed
income. So it was the central banks
setting the price five years ago. It was
the public sector that was the dominant
driver of markets. And we're now moving
into an environment where it's the
private sector, it's the asset managers
who are the price setters and on the
margin they're demanding more term
premium and higher yields.
What does it mean if you don't see some
sort of rally on the long end in
response to a lack of supply? If you
don't see any, say, 30-year issuance or
very little around the world, does that
mean that yields go down that actually
there's more demand for that paper or
does that render it just sort of an
obsolete maturity? Yeah, I mean the
adjustments in the maturities are not a
silver bullet. So just because the
Treasury is going to be um focusing on
bills doesn't necessarily mean that we
should expect lower 10 or 30-year
Treasury yields. But I think you always
have to differentiate between you know
your structural view. You can have a
structural view that yields over the
course of a cycle can be higher, but
that doesn't preclude that on a cyclical
basis, yields can still move lower if
we're seeing weakening in growth,
weakening inflation, and the Fed cutting
interest rates.
Well, when it comes to the Fed cutting,
how challenging does now the moving
goalposts of the tariff date make their
decision, especially also August 1st is
when we'll get July payrolls. Is that
enough time for them to cut in
September, which a lot of people in the
market believe
it is tricky? Um because, you know,
they've been saying all year, they've
been on hold for seven months, right?
And they've been saying, "We need more
clarity. We need more clarity." Um and
maybe the the clarity they're getting is
the fact that they're not going to get
clarity. And eventually they're just
going to need to move forward with the
information at hand. And I think the
information at hand is going to tell
them that ultimately additional rate
cuts are expected uh or should be
anticipated. And I think the f the the
real thing that we're focused on as it
relates to the inflation is let's not
debate from month to month. Are we going
to see an increase in core goods
inflation this month or next month? Um
you know that's kind of a fool's errand.
What is the broader inflation backdrop
telling us about the strength of the
economy? And when you look at services
inflation, shelter inflation,
the other parts of service inflation
that are cyclally oriented like airfares
and lodging, they're telling you that
cyclally the economy is weakening. And
that's ultimately the the signal that
the Fed is going to be looking at, not
the kind of one-time price adjustment
risk from the tariffs that they were
concerned with at the, you know, in
April.
Listening to the chairman, he's told us
pretty clearly he's waiting because he
thinks he can. He's waiting because he
believes the economy is solid. If he's
cutting in September, it's because it's
not anymore. If they believe they want
to wait and see what happens with the
tariffs, they're going to have to wait
beyond September. That's why I think if
you're making a call now for September
cuts, I think you've also got to make
the call there's got to be a degree of
weakening in the economy at the same
time, haven't you?
Yeah. But I think that you are seeing
that weakening in the economy. Um so if
you look at the payrolls report, if you
exclude the government jobs, private
payrolls was weaker than expected and it
was very concentrated in just a few a
few areas. I think the other thing that
caught my eye was hours worked continues
to fall, right? So you may not be losing
your job, but you're working less hours,
which is an indication of less demand.
And then I look at the consumption data.
You know, the consumer's been strong.
They've been held up by decent income
growth, but at the same time, the Q1
real uh consumption data was revised
down. The Q2 real consumption data is
tracking a little bit on the soft side.
Now, we'll get more information on that
in retail sales, which isn't this week,
but next week. Um and so you know I
think that ultimately this is kind of a
subtrend muddle along environment where
um you know the risk of reaceleration is
is not not necessarily supposed to be
your base case
which typically is a screaming argument
by the 10-year and beyond. But it's not
anymore.
Well, it's not about the 10ear now. It's
all about the short end. And right now
there's a real question about the supply
demand dynamic and how much Treasury
Secretary Besson is the ultimate
kingmaker in the bond market.
Calcius, good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Cassie Barrow there of JP
Morgan Asset Management. Up next on the
program, Evan Brown of UBS, Sarah Bianke
of Evacore, the Daimler Truck, North
America CEO John Olirri, and Arc
Investment CEO Kathy Wood. Live from New
York, the second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance. Up next.
[Music]
We still prefer the US equity market to
other markets globally. The US is also
the single biggest destination still for
dynamism.
We're uncomfortable with where multiples
are, which is why we think that you're
likely to have a pullback. You're a
gazillion miles away from a a sell
signal.
People are underappreciating the risk to
the upside. In
the next couple of months, you could see
more volatility. But near-term, you get
the chase.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to all. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this in the
equity market. Equity futures on the S&P
just about positive by a tenth of 1%.
The tariff levels, the threats are very
similar. The price action is very, very
different. We were down 5%, down 6%
following April 2nd. Nothing like it
anticipating July 9th. As July 9th now
becomes August one, equity futures are
positive by a tenth of 1%.
The date and the moving goalpost more
important at this point than any levels
that we get in terms of potential tariff
rates because they are temporary and
they are not going on until August 1st.
And with that point, you might have
different ones to look at. This is a
market that has gotten benumbed to every
single headline and it goes to the
question what will shock it. Rob of
signum group coming out earlier and
saying ultimately Rob Casey this is
going to be different this time and at
what point will this market wake up to
that? Is that a possibility? And how
much is this sort of training grounds
for a complacency that we've seen time
and time again?
It's a big subject of debate so far this
morning for the threat to be credible.
It needs to follow through. And right
now, a lot of people don't believe this
president will follow through.
Which is why I was only having deja vu
when I looked at the tariff rates
because they're pretty much the same as
liberation day. Maybe a percentage or
two off when it comes to certain
countries. But the market impact was
definitely different. That idea of taco
Trump always chickens out has really
gotten a hold of the market. They think
that this isn't credible because he'll
just extend and delay yet again. What I
think could be impactful for the market
if it's to the upside. If Trump comes
out and says, "Look, I got a deal with
India. We're really close to a deal with
the European Union, some big trading
partners, that could potentially be
changing when it comes to the trade
story."
Lisa mentioned some of the companies and
how corporations respond to some of
this. I think they got a pass last
earning season on the calls just to say
we don't know, can't provide you with
guidance. Do they get a pass this time
around, this upcoming earning season?
It's a difficult question and it
probably depends on the sector and how
quickly some of the tariffs go on. So,
if the tariffs have already gone on
that, you'll see where they've passed
along price increases. We've seen that
with certain retailers. If people have
been able to hoard some of the products
and then sell them at base prices,
you're not going to necessarily see that
read through. But really, this is the
ultimate question. Have we seen the
impact of the tariffs so far on consumer
prices? We get CPI next week. And that's
a key question. Some people saying,
"Look, we can adapt and adjust and this
is all just fine." And other people
saying, "Just wait."
This week, we get to ask the airlines.
Here's your week ahead. So, July 9th is
no longer that important. We've got some
economic data. Jobless claims are doing
okay based on the data we got last week.
Delta Airlines report on Thursday. They
gave us an early snapshot of some
weaknesses started to emerge in the
economy earlier this year back in
February. What are they going to say
later this week?
Probably some of the same. We've heard
that. Although United came out and said
a couple of weeks ago that they are
expecting a rebound in the second half.
They've been pressured by the domestic
consumer base. And this goes to the
question that we really have been
grappling with. Is the policy of
uncertainty and frankly some of the
weakening that we were just talking
about with Kelsey Barrow, is that
already showing up in terms of people
being more discretionary about flying to
Cincinnati and Milwaukee?
Lots of drama if you received one of
those letters. No drama so far this
morning in this equity market. Positive
by a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. Coming
up this hour, Evan Brown of UBS Asset
Management staying overweight equities.
Sarah Bianke of Everore as President
Trump leaves the door open for trade
talks. and the Arc Invest CEO Kathy Wood
on Tesla's latest slide. We begin this
hour with Stock Steady as President
Trump signals he's open to more trade
negotiations. Evan Brown of UBS writing,
"We think the market can look through
this soft patch as rate cuts, fiscal
stimulus, and AIEL productivity gains
set the stage for a better 2026." Evan
joins us now for more. Evan, good
morning.
Good morning.
Are you already done with 2025?
Yeah, that's right. I mean, I I I we're
not of this view that the economy is
just going to sail through the second
half. We think the the economy will cool
as these tariffs take effect. It's just
the market gets that at this point. And
the fact that yeah, the hard data will
be deteriorating a little bit. the soft
data is improving and historically when
when you have these kind of shocks uh
the the soft data goes down first the
hard data follows but once that soft
data rebounds the market kind of doesn't
care about the hard data declining
what's more important to you right now
dear South Korea dear Japan dear whoever
might receive a letter or the earnings
that we're going to see in the next few
weeks
yeah so we're we're less focused on the
you know each individual bilateral trade
deal What we want to hear is from the
the companies themselves and and what
they're what they're doing, how much
they're absorbing in margins, how much
they're passing through to the consumer.
Again, uh we expect effects. We don't
expect these corporates to say
everything is just fine. Um but at the
same time, we've seen particularly US
companies just be remarkably dynamic and
adaptable to what we've seen as a
multitude of shocks over the last few
years.
So John put me on the spot and I
answered as best as I could, but you
could answer it better. Are they going
to get a pass again in terms of being
able to give forward guidance of what
the year ahead looks like and how
exactly those tariff costs are going to
be borne out?
Yeah, I think I I look, it's still a
moving target with the with the tariffs.
And so, uh, you know, I think a lot of
companies will will say, "Oh, we're
still working it out. We're still
figuring out the exact uh uh layout
here." But um I think there will be you
you can expect more specifics coming
from these individual companies but I
think as you said earlier it's going to
be a little bit more company by company,
sector by sector and less of a big macro
issue and more of a micro issue. We're
trying to put a narrative to something
and I wonder if it's sort of a fool's
errand on a lot of levels, but partly
whether we're just looking at a rally
generated by systematic fund
rebalancing, whether we're looking at
share re buybacks and just still a lot
of liquidity in the system that needs to
go somewhere more than we are any kind
of cohesive economic or policy
narrative.
Yeah. Look, I I we we go on TV and we
like to, like you say, put narratives on
everything. I will absolutely admit that
there is a huge technical uh angle
happening here where you you essentially
had the market completely freak out and
capitulate with liberation day at by
some metrics same kind of capitulation
that we saw 2008 and and uh and in COVID
and then now there's this massive chase
and look I mean there's 7 trillion
dollars in in money markets and and uh
that money is going to have to come in
as you said systematic strategies
jumping in everyone's been saying that
Yeah,
I beg to differ. If there's risk there
and you're getting paid 5% for cash, at
what point is it not going to go into
equities, is it not going to be some
sort of boost, but frankly, an
investment in of itself?
Yeah, I mean, in the end, uh, you know,
we'll talk about different valuations
and what you earn and everything like
that, but in the end, it comes down to
risk appetite, right? Markets are
behavioral. So, love to put fundamental
stories on everything, but the market
has been going higher and that's going
to pull people in and it will take a
meaningful shock, I think, to disrupt
that. Now, I've said that the hard data,
we're okay with it coming down, but if
the the big risk is we just have the
economy completely wrong and the labor
market breaks. Now, it doesn't look like
that's happening. We saw a decent labor
report on Thursday. Um, but that I think
is the key risk here more than the the
tariff noise.
On the policy side, what could be the
catalyst to the upside or the downside?
Because you correctly note that
basically the tax cuts and the tariffs
cancel each other out.
Yeah. So, I think it's Yeah. So, the the
tax cuts and the tariffs, it's kind of a
sequencing issue. The tariffs hit right
now. That hurts. Tax cuts are going to
really come through in early 2026. So,
uh that's a bit of a of a of a wash. I
don't know that you need to have
meaningful positive catalysts. I think
things need to just be okay and then
those natural technicals will follow
through and and the markets will keep uh
grinding higher. It's it's you feel
silly making these arguments, but this
is the reality of the market.
This is the exhaustion we were talking
about the previous hour. People are
conditioned to buy. Get out of the way.
They'll keep buying.
And that's part of the reason why people
are trying to come up with a rationale.
Are things so much better now than they
were before April 2nd? No. Why are
people ignoring this? It's the way that
it goes and right now there's a lot of
cash and people capitulated and they're
coming back. I just wonder if there's a
breaking point and that I think would be
the economy to Evans Point.
Forgive me for getting back to the
fundamentals. Let's talk about the
economy and what the market's pricing.
Inconsistent markets apparently
according to Torson of Apollo this
morning who says the bond market
continues to price the next Fed move to
be a cut with the expectation that
growth is slowing down. That's fixed
income. equities. The stock market is
trading cyclicals higher relative to
defensives with the expectation that
growth is about to accelerate. Can you
make sense of that for us?
Yeah, again I think it's a sequencing
thing, right? So part of the the the
slowdown, you know, the bending but not
breaking of the economy that we expect
is going to lead the Fed to cut rates
and I think that's going to ease
financial conditions and support the
economy into 2026 along with those tax
cuts. And so as the market looks
through, you see cyclicals start
improving versus defenses.
That all sounds quite cute, doesn't it?
Bond markets pricing in the slowdown
that leads to rate cuts and the market's
responding to the rate cuts you might
get because of the slowdown that the
bond market's priced for
because people don't believe that the
slowdown is going to be that significant
and it's going to be a temporary thing
that'll be offset with monetary policy.
Yes, exactly. That's
We should start a podcast. This was
great. Evan, thanks for dropping by.
Evan Brown of UBS Asset Management
Torsson, if you're watching, there's the
explanation apparently. Does that all
make sense to you? You know, this is
what a lot of people have been saying
that ultimately if there's a slowdown,
it's not going to be a recession and
then you can get through it. The Fed's
going to help get the other side. And as
we can see, the equity market's already
in 2026, so 2025 doesn't really matter.
It's a write-off and if you get rate
cuts, you're good. There is this
question about what are we missing in
the labor market? And I sound like
negative Nelly, but that is something
that you have to watch about. As well as
inflation, can the Fed cut rates? If you
have inflation that does pick up in any
kind of way on the heels of tariffs and
this really does become an increasing
issue heading into the fall.
It's on brand. Embrace it.
Sounds good.
I feel terrible because people come on
and they're so positive and they're
like, you know, I'm like, yeah, but what
about
got to offset
nuclear war, you know, and that's what
the news is for. Brao,
it's morning. Really?
Good morning. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's
your Bloomberg brief with Lizzie Burden.
Hey, Lizzie.
Hey, John. Brazilian Zelian President
Lula de Silva is joining South Africa in
blasting President Trump for his threat
to slap extra tariffs against BRICS
nations. He's accusing the US of being
irresponsible and called on world
leaders to find ways to reduce
international trade's reliance on the
dollar. And President Trump says that
he'll ship more weapons to Ukraine.
Trump made the comments at a dinner with
Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
last night, just days after speaking to
the Ukraine's President Vladimir
Zalinski. The decision comes after the
Pentagon halted flows of some air
defense missiles and artillery shells to
Ukraine. And travelers may get to keep
their shoes on while going through
standard airport security checkpoints.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that the Transportation Security
Administration is planning to update its
policies to make the change. It's a move
that would extend a benefit already
available to individuals who pay for TSA
precheck. That should be my brief. John
Lizzie, thank you. What's wrong? Oh my
gosh, Lisa doesn't have pre-check. I'm
never traveling again.
Honestly, this is like I feel bullied. I
feel like you have global.
No, I I feel like clear is actually
it's now busier than the normal line.
I feel like it's a violation. I feel I
feel personally offended by clear.
I have clear and free check.
Hold up. Give her a chance. Why do you
feel violated by this?
Because you've got to pay to play in
this profound way. It's not just sort of
a security thing. It's this idea of if
you pay, you are shephered in front of a
long line of screaming babies and you
just, you know, it's just I I feel like
it's unfair and it would be sort of
hypocritical for me to
some people watching this morning will
think you're the smart one because if
you go to the airport at the moment on
many an occasion, the normal line is the
shorter line. TSA pre-check everyone
seems to have now clear everyone seems
to have. You
got to have both. Before I feel
selfless, all I could say before I feel
self-righteous, I waited for 45 minutes
yesterday to get through security. So,
but I didn't have to take my shoes off.
You don't have global entry.
I know. I mean,
you don't have global entry.
I'm indefensible.
Am you are judgy this morning. Jeez. Up
next on the program, leaving the door
open for trade talks.
The president will also sign an
executive order delaying the July 9th
deadline to August 1st. So, the
reciprocal tariff rate or these new
rates that will be provided in this
correspondence to these foreign leaders.
Up next, we'll catch up with Sarah
Bianke of Everore, live from New York
City this morning. You're watching
Glimbe TV.
[Music]
In case you missed it on Bloomberg
Surveillance in the commercial break,
AMH just called Lita Ratchet. I have not
heard that word. I have not had that
word in forever.
Bougie Ratchet, right? I just think of
that song.
Wow.
It's just like you're wasting so much
time. It's crazy to me that we don't
have this.
I think I'll take the rest of the
morning off and I'll go get it. So, I'll
see you later.
I'll come with you. All right. Equities
so far. If you're just tuning in, good
morning to you all and welcome to the
program. Futures positive by a tenth of
1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ 100, we're
up by a quarter of 1% under surveillance
this morning. They're leaving the door
open for trade talks.
The president will also sign an
executive order delaying the July 9th
deadline to August 1st. So, the
reciprocal tariff rate or these new
rates that will be provided in this
correspondence to these foreign leaders.
All of those, if understanding
correctly, are now deferred to August
1st. Right.
Correct. There will be additional
letters in the coming days. He is
literally looking at the map and looking
at every country on the planet and
seeing where they are ripping off the
American people.
Here's the latest this morning. The
White House unveiling a wave of letters
sent to key trading partners threatening
higher tariff rates, including a new 25%
levy on goods from Japan and South
Korea. Joining us now from the nation's
capital is Tyler Kendall. Tyler, we
couldn't achieve it in 90 days. What
difference does an extra 3 weeks make?
Yeah. Hey, John. Well, when we look at
actually the tariff rates here, they're
not marginally different as you've been
pointing out on the program. Japan, for
example, is only up by one percentage
point. Many of these countries are
facing the same levels, the same sort of
threats, like South Korea, also
Indonesia, South Africa. I will point
out, I think it's worth mentioning that
some did see lower tariff rates and
perhaps that could boost their odds at
getting a deal, such as Laos and
Cambodia, which actually saw the biggest
drop from 49 to 36%. Essentially though,
we heard President Trump indicate that
these are the countries that the US at
the moment are most frustrated with when
it comes to trying to work towards a
deal. And that's one difference between
now and April 2nd. When you look at
which countries were prioritized for the
letters, Japan and South Korea, our
understanding has been, have long been
prioritized in the talks to get a deal
for a multitude of reasons. We've
repeatedly heard from US officials that
these were the countries that came early
and often to the negotiating table, not
to mention the strategic components here
when it comes to competition with China.
At the end of the day, though, it does
appear that this perhaps 3-week
extension could be fluid going forward.
President Trump said that August 1st was
firm, but not 100% firm in his words,
indicating that he's open to
negotiations and that even these updated
tariff rates could ultimately change at
the end of the day. Uh John, we are
expecting more letters. You heard the
White House press secretary there.
Bloomberg Economics says that of the
countries that have already received
letters, they make up about 15% of US
imports.
Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. More from Tyler later in the
program. So, we've got some extra time.
Joining us now to discuss Sarah Bianke
of AOR. Sarah, welcome back to the
program. How is the administration, the
White House, and trade partners going to
use that extra three weeks?
Well, I think that you guys are right to
say that what uh the White House is
trying to do here is to signal countries
where they are frustrated. Uh although
South Korea and Japan early on were
places where the White House was hopeful
for a deal, they've really gotten stuck
in the conversations around sectoral
tariffs or particularly around tariffs
on autos uh steel. some of the largest
imports from those countries. Uh the
Azion countries, uh Cambodia, Indonesia,
I think they're trying to follow uh more
the model that we saw uh briefly
outlined around Vietnam. So I think
we're doing some signal sending. Uh the
administration has I think always been
very very optimistic about how many
trade deals uh or even frameworks one
can cut in a period of time. So, I
really just viewed yesterday this first
set of letters as an indication uh of
where at this moment the White House
believes uh things are not on the path
they want to see.
How powerful is the signal though and
the president says it's firm but not
100% firm.
Yeah. Well, I I think you know there are
certainly some uh in the markets who are
just going to shrug this off uh because
we have seen delays. uh we have seen uh
uh this kind of kind of high tough talk
before. Uh I think what we would remind
uh investors and other stakeholders is
that right now uh we do see the
directional tariff rate in the next uh
coming weeks going up. We're seeing
countries like Vietnam uh like uh uh
ending up at higher uh than the sort of
10% baseline we've been at and we have
more sectoral tariffs. So, uh, some of
this is just Trump negotiating that
we've watched for a long time. Uh, but I
think also, uh, we're at really high
tariff rates right now. We're already at
about 15% and, uh, again, in our minds,
the next signal points upward.
Sarah, do you have a decent
understanding of what has been demanded
by trade partners? Has the White House
articulated that? Do they know what they
need to do to get the tariff that's been
put in a letter in the last 24 hours to
get that tariff lower?
Uh I think it really depends on the
partner. I think certainly countries
like Japan and Korea understand where
the sticking points uh are even though
they don't like it. Uh they just really
uh particularly they've got their own
politics. For example, in Korea it's a
very new government. Japan has an
election coming up. They need relief on
on autos really. So I think they
understand. I think their the bid ask is
just at this part too far apart. Other
countries uh I know there is uh
bandwidth challenges uh given how many
countries are negotiating. So a country
like a Cambodia may be having trouble
getting uh uh all the airtime uh they
need to sort this out. Uh so uh it I
think it's really depends uh on the
partner. Interestingly, you know, EU
that it's been traditionally very
sticky, difficult trading partner for
the Trump administration, they seem on
track. So, uh, this is just kind of, you
know, a snapshot of where we are in in
this inning.
Sarah, what do we mean when we talk
about getting deals because it seems
like the details of these deals are
actually very foggy and it takes a long
time. You've been intimately involved in
crafting some of these deals. How
realistic is it that they could be more
than a framework anytime in the next few
months uh given just what goes into some
of these negotiations?
Well, these are very very high level as
you point out. For example, on Vietnam,
one of the uh touted deals by the Trump
administration, we haven't even really
seen paper and uh one of the big
questions for Vietnam is they got a
bifurcated tariff rate. they got 20% uh
and then 40% uh on trans shshipment. Uh
trans shipment can mean lots of
different things and can have lots of
different implications. So these are
extremely high level and look you have
trade irritants with trading partners
because there are a sensitive political
and economic issues and they take a long
time to work through. So, uh, the notion
that we were ever going to get, uh, you
know, 90 deals in 90 days, uh, was
certainly thought of somebody who hasn't
spent a lot of time negotiating trade.
Well, now it's 113 days, and I think a
lot of people are questioning whether or
not you can even get a dozen of deals
done by then. When can we expect the
sectoral tariffs to actually be
announced?
Well, that's been interesting. Some of
them are rumored to be coming any day
now. Uh, copper is supposedly close,
lumber. I think the biggest ones that
we're watching are on semis uh and the
pharmaceutical industry. Those are a
very large sectors of the economy and
very uh important from particularly on
semis and inflationary perspective about
where the administration goes. Uh I
think there's still a lot for the
administration uh to sort out but the
way we have seen this president operate
in sectoral tariffs so far is he comes
out with 20 25% pretty broad uh and then
negotiates from there. Uh so far they
have been stickier in those negotiation.
That's why the Koreas and uh and Japans
are so frustrated. Uh but uh in terms of
when he wants to throw this in the mix
uh sort of unclear except I will say
this president is feeling pretty good
coming off some impressive legislative
wins and foreign policy wins. Uh he may
feel like right now is the time he has
the bandwidth to put these forward.
So do you think he'll be more aggressive
and let a lot of this drag on?
I think he is feeling uh uh bullish and
more aggressive. um uh you know and at
the same time uh the market you know
isn't necessarily always uh buying all
of it. So uh that probably also uh uh
tilts in the direction of wanting him to
um uh go even further. But uh again of
course there's a lot of back and forth.
Uh I don't believe for example that
Japan or Korea will end up ultimately
with a 25% uh reciprocal tariff. That's
all part of the process. But
directionally again, we think we're on
uh an upward move and yeah, I do think
he's feeling pretty good and and
generally that leads presidents to uh be
a bit more bullish.
Sarah Bianke of Evacore. Sarah, thank
you. Certainly emboldened by all-time
highs in the equity market more recently
as well perhaps. What do they say?
Comparison is the thief of joy. It
depends what you compare yourself to.
And I think the market's comfortable
with the idea that things will be worse
maybe than the start of the year, but
better than April 2nd. And so long as
things are better than April 2nd, I
think people can move on.
That was really deep. I love that. You
know, we just have to lower our
expectations and then we'll be really
happy. I mean, it's essentially the
truth, though. We have to lower the
expectations. Just don't make it that
much worse and then we're fine. I mean,
15% the highest uh tariff rates since
1930s. It's okay. We can adapt and
adjust. And that seems to be what the
market's going.
Equities just off record highs on the
S&P 500 firmer this morning by a tenth
of 1%. Up next, the Daimler Truck North
America CEO John Olirri on the impact of
tariffs on the industry. Plus, Yahara
Arnand with your morning movers. AMD
shares rising on a price target hike
from city from New York. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Snapping a two-day winning
streak on the S&P 500 in yesterday's
session. We pulled back from alltime
highs. The biggest one day loss going
back to midJune. Your bounce is pretty
mild this morning. Up a tenth of 1% on
the S&P 500 on the NASDAQ up by around
about a quarter. With two hours until
the opening bell, two hours away from
your cash open with your morning movers.
Let's cross over to Yahara Arnold. Hey
yhara.
Hi John. We have a few stocks moving off
sellside calls and we start with AMD up
about 1.5 1 and a.5% the chip maker
rising after city raised their price
target on the stock from $120 to $145.
They are citing stronger than expected
demand and signs that tariffs aren't
hurting the chip industry. They say that
across the board in the sector they see
solid demand driven by customers
replenishing inventory. So good signs
there. Next up, we have Bank of America.
The Wall Street giant giant is falling
1.8% after HSBC downgraded it from a buy
to a hold, citing limited upside ahead
as these bank stocks stocks have rallied
nicely since their April low. We heard
something similar last week from David
George who gave JP Morgan that rare
downgrade due to the price. And this of
course is coming as we kick off bank
earnings next week. And we end with
another financial stock and that is
Capital One. It is up about 9/10en of 1%
after TD Cowan upgraded it to a buy,
citing upside from the Discover deal,
including being able to reach more
customers globally. Plus, analysts there
see the potential for major buybacks
ahead. And as a result of all these
tailwinds, they are also raising their
price target to 258 on the stock. John
Yahara, thank you. More from Yhara in
the next hour. On our radar this
morning, our top story, President Donald
Trump delivering a wave of tariff
letters yesterday, informing countries
of their new tariff rate. At the same
time, Trump signing an executive order
delaying the increased duties until
August 1st.
So 113 days now is basically going to be
how they can get these deal done. It was
90 days. Basically, when you look at
these rates though, coming out of these
letters, the rates are the same, the
dates are different. The question, of
course, is can they get this done and
how credible it is? Both of you have
been bringing this up. How credible it
is when the president's language is
incredibly ambiguous and wishy-washy.
Quote, I would say firm, but not 100%
firm. If they call up and they'd say,
"We'd like to do something a different
way, we're going to be open to that."
But essentially, that's the way it is
right now. So, basically, everything is
fluid and everything can change. I
didn't get a letter. Do you think that
there are trading partners that are kind
of offended? You know, you didn't single
me out. I just wonder what we're going
to end up seeing in terms of actual
deals. If you didn't get a letter, does
that mean that you get, you know, a
ticket to the prom?
Well, I think Bosnia and Herzer Jveninya
was uh potentially annoyed. There was a
correction that had to be released in
the letter because the president said,
"Mr. President," but it was madame
president. So, there were some
individuals who got the letter and said,
"Actually, I think this was directed at
potentially the wrong leader of the
country." And there was a correction
yesterday as well.
There's some signal in that this has
been rushed. They need the extra time. A
lot of people thought they'd need the
extra time back on April 2nd and back
after a week later when they announced
the 90-day delay and here we are. They
need an extra three weeks.
Which again goes to the question of are
they losing leverage and do they lose
leverage by not just saying look this is
a complicated procedure. We're going to
have to kick the the deadline versus
just say you know we've got letters and
this is going to be a serious
negotiation because the market's not
taking it very seriously.
It's some serious tension. You can see
in the economic data at least German
exports sinking more than expected for
the month of May. the value of shipments
to the US plunging to the lowest level
in over three years off the back of
these tariff threats.
Yeah. So, this is a real question about
how much the European economy is going
to suffer under the weight of some of
these tariffs. We've been talking about
European exceptionalism about how
there's this sort of renaissance in
European equities and this kind of
challenges that a little bit this idea
that maybe they they could take a hit
and frankly this goes to the question of
how much more can the euro strengthen on
the heels of potential tariffs that
could weaken the US economy if we
haven't accounted for the weakness in
Europe on the heels of some of these
levies.
Last week was fascinating. We had push
back from ECB officials off the back of
the euro strength and the euro stared it
down and moved on and keeps grinding
higher. I find that really interesting.
The ECB's verbal intervention, and I
think we can call it that, of the past
week, has barely made a dent in the
rally over the past several months.
They weren't scared by some of the ECB
officials saying getting above 120
versus the dollar would make it
complicated. And the market said, "Okay,
make it complicated."
Let's keep it on Europe. President Trump
saying he'll ship more weapons to
Ukraine following talks with the
president Vladimir Zilinski last week.
The move marking a reversal after the
Pentagon halted flows of some weapons to
the country in the past few months. And
the DoD followed up after the
president's comments yesterday with a
statement last night saying at the
direction of the president, they're
going to be sending additional defense
weapons to Ukraine to ensure Ukrainians
can defend themselves while they work to
secure a lasting peace. The president
rhetoric is starting to get a lot hotter
when it comes to Vladimir Putin than it
is to President Zilinsky. President
Zilinsky has talked about that their
most recent phone call was the best one
they've had since. And when it comes to
Putin, Trump has said, "I'm
disappointed, frankly, that he hasn't
stopped and he's not happy about it and
now he's sending weapons to Kev." That's
the latest on foreign policy. Here's the
latest on trucking and the truck
industry. D Truck kicking off its
capital market day event today after
lowering its sales and profit guidance
for the year back in May, citing
economic uncertainty in North America
due to guess what, drum roll, trade
tensions. Daimler Truck North America
CEO John Olirri joins us now for more
alongside Bloomberg's Matt Miller. John,
first of all to you, sir, there was that
downgrade to guidance back in May. I
understand you've got an update for us
this morning. How have sales been
trending ever since?
Yeah, first off, thanks for the honor of
uh of being on your show. Yeah, I mean
it's definitely a lot of uncertainty out
there right now. A lot of people waiting
for the dust to settle. Uh I think
people are just looking for certainty
whether it's tariffs or any other uh
economic policy. Uh our customers are
kind of in wait and see mode because
their end customers who generate freight
moves and and ultimately freight rates
are also in wait and see mode. So
everybody's just kind of on the
sidelines. you know, waiting for some
sign of uh of certainty
and and not buying trucks. It looks like
uh you had a drop of 20% in uh unit
sales in in in the second quarter. Is
that you think likely to pick up now
that we've got this big beautiful bill
and we're starting to see trade deals go
out or do you expect continued
uncertainty to hold back revenue in Q3?
Well, I think there's a lot of uh
interpretation of the big beautiful bill
uh that needs to happen and ultimately
like I said end users who generate
freight, they need to figure out uh if
it's good for them in their particular
industry. Obviously, our customers are
hauling everything from steel to
groceries to petroleum to everything.
So, how the bill impacts each one of
those uh end markets ultimately drives,
you know, a segment of our uh orders.
So, we'll have to see how that all
shakes out. Still, I would say a lot to
remaining to be seen and and it's all
not just the big beautiful bill. Also,
there's economic policy and you've been
talking about tariffs and other things
out there. So, there there really needs
to be, I think, a firming up of uh of
economic policy before people understand
or or realize this is what we have to
work forward with and then we can all
adjust and and and move. But in the
meantime, there's the uncertainty just
has people frozen. you you have uh I
don't think a lot of people realize I
think you make more school buses than
anybody else in this country. You have a
ton of production obviously in the
United States of America but also a
couple of plants in Mexico. How agile is
your supply chain? How easily can you u
move you know freight liner production
back to US plants or um up the count of
US-made parts in your Mexican produced
trucks?
Yeah, that's a great observation and uh
yeah, we are the nation's largest school
bus producer as well. Uh Thomas built
school buses which is located about uh
30 minutes uh east of where I am right
now. Uh we have a number of plants in
the US. This Cleveland truck plant is
our largest heavy duty truck plant uh
about an hour north of Charlotte. We
have another medium duty truck plant
just west of the Charlotte airport.
We've got a parts plant in Gastonia,
also by the airport. We've got a custom
chassis division uh located down in
Gaffne, South Carolina, just over the
border. So, we're we're hugely located
center gravitywise in the Carolinas. Uh
but then, as you said, we also have a
couple of plants in Mexico. So, we're
flexible. We can build any of our models
uh in either country. You know, we we've
really tried to uh let's say uh be as
flexible as possible. And uh certainly
if we ever got into a peak market, you
know, we might have to look at expanding
some capacity uh in the US to be able to
accommodate that. But certainly today at
the the market levels we're at uh to to
move it back and forth is is really not
so problematic. Uh you also alluded to
the supply chain and that's probably the
bigger issue uh because uh you know a
lot of those folks it's been well
documented the integrated nature of
automotive and we are obviously not cars
but we're part of the auto automotive
industry writ large uh there's a huge
amount of integration between Canada,
Mexico, US in the supply chain and that
takes a lot longer uh to be able to uh
you know to adapt. there's just not too
many empty plants sitting around in the
US uh that are currently, you know, up
to date with tooling and a workforce,
you know, parked outside waiting to go
to work. All all that stuff takes time.
And typically to bring a new plant
online or even to refurbish an old one
and get it up to today's standards,
you're talking three years potentially.
So, it's not an easy problem to solve.
John, in terms of the the tariff that
gets slapped on your trucks assembled in
Mexico that come back here for sale in
the US market, uh the 25% only applies
to the non US produced parts, right? So,
if you have a truck that's made of 40%
non- US sourced parts, that's only like
a 10% hit. How much of that um can you
eat? Because you have pretty fat
margins, right? 14 15% in the trucks
business. How much of that tariff can
you eat and how much do you have to pass
on in price increases to your customers?
Yeah, so today obviously we're uh USMCA
compliant, you know, under the existing
uh regulations and and obviously there
was some discussion still underway by
the administration to reopen USMCA. uh
today that requires roughly 65% US
content which uh for our Mexican trucks
we're able to uh definitely uh let's say
bring into line with the powertrain
whether it's engine, transmissions,
axles that we ship into Mexico for
installation then ultimately get
credited back when they come across uh
the border for some inside baseball. But
yeah, you're correct. I mean there's
definitely some inflationary
uh pressure that that comes with any
kind of tariff uh and and what that
ultimately shakes out to is going to be
the nature of what the tariff is. So uh
then there's also a competitive
landscape to consider as well. Obviously
I think every manufacturer would love to
push every dollar of tariff uh out as
full fully into the uh economy as
possible but you've got competitive
pressures as well and we're in a pretty
competitive industry. We have some uh
great competitors that we fight tooth
and nail with. So uh how much ability we
have to ultimately do that remains to be
seen.
I want to come full circle because this
really does bring us back to the answer
to John's initial question when you said
we're ultimately in wait and see mode.
We've been trying to quantify what that
uncertainty looks like for someone in
the sweet seuite like yourself. What
does that mean? Does that mean you're
not making certain investments that
you're not making certain hires? Is that
the reason why you're buying back stock
rather than necessarily investing say in
autonomous driving capabilities?
So I mean we've we've always felt since
we became a separate uh company in 2021.
We've been uh very bullish on stock
buybacks and we've continued to do that.
So that's not a new thing uh a new
decision that we've made, you know, in
reaction to anything else that's going
on. That's an independent uh decision
and we clearly want to make sure that
even as we do that we have other money
to pay dividends with and other money to
make investments with. So we we've
obviously thought that through and we we
feel like we're fine in any situation
there. But yeah, in terms of
investments, uh those typically are more
driven by uh environmental regulations
and there's a lot of change going on
there. We haven't talked about that, but
there's clearly a lot of change going
on. Obviously, the EPA uh has rolled
some things back. Uh California has
rolled some things back and ultimately
that drives a lot of our major
investments because when you talk about
uh bringing engine or ultimately the
entire powertrain up to speed in terms
of uh more fuel efficient or lower CO2
or whatever the regulations are, there's
a big cost that's associated with that.
Hey John, I know you've got a busy
morning. Thanks for making time for us.
Appreciate it. John over there the
diamond the truck North America CEO.
Thank you, sir. Matt Miller, thank you.
My pleasure.
It's good to see you.
It's great to be here.
Thanks for dropping by and waking up
early. Thank you very much.
I mean, normally I'm sitting in the
control room watching your show
for the benefit of the audience. You
keep you keep going with that, Matt.
Appreciate it. Look out for Matt Miller
again at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time as we
work our way towards the opening bell.
Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie Burton.
Hey, Lizzie.
Hey, John. President Trump says that
he's going to travel to Texas on Friday
to see the devastation from flash floods
which killed at least a hundred people
and left dozens still missing. The
deaths include at least 27 children and
staff from a summer camp. Recovery teams
expect to find more victims as a search
continues. And elsewhere, Porsche shares
are higher after the car maker reported
a slowing decline in first half sales.
Deliveries came in at 6% lower in the
first half from a year ago with fierce
competition in China leading to a 28%
sales slump in the country. Growth in
North America slowed to 10% after an
initial 37% surge in the first three
months of the year. And in sports, the
Wimbledon quarterfinals get underway
this morning with Taylor Fritz and
Carlos Alcarz both set to play. Top
ranked Yanick SA will play tomorrow
after surviving an upset scare against
Grigor Dmitrov who had to retire due to
injury during a two- set lead. In the
women's tournament, number one ranked
Arena Sabalena will play center court
later this morning. And that's a brief.
John
Lizzie, thank you. Heartbreaking for
Demetra yesterday. Just brutal to see
him two sets up against the world number
one and then have to retire. Matt,
before you go, just one final word. The
9/11, what happened? Yeah, we saw a huge
dip in 911 sales in the first half. So,
Porsche broke out sales globally. But
here in the US, they sold a lot more
Macons, the lowest priced vehicle that
they make, and a lot fewer, like a
thousand fewer 911s.
What's that telling you?
It means that um the prices have risen
so much that US consumers are really
starting to pull back.
Where's your 911?
I've been in that 911.
I went in that, too.
I love that car.
It's a nice car back in the It's a It's
a very well-made car. It's
overengineered, which why people love
it, but it's really expensive and the
price continues to rise higher and
higher, obviously with this tariff.
Who's got your old 911 now? Where is
that?
It's in Berlin.
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay.
Doing the speeds it deserves.
The happy owner of Matt's old car. I
hope you're enjoying that, Matt. Thanks
again. Up next on the program, crossing
a line.
This is a time now for Musk. He needs to
choose. I think there's a line in the
sand that he's now starting to cross. I
believe you've now hit a point. I think
the board's going to have to get
involved. We'll ask that question to the
Arch Invest CEO, Kathy Wood, who joins
us next live from New York. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Stocks are positive here by a tenth of
1% on the S&P up by 0.3 on the NASDAQ
100 under surveillance this morning.
Crossing a line.
This is a time now for Musk. He needs to
choose and you can't keep having these
one step forward, two steps back. I
think there's a line in the sand that
he's now starting to cross. I believe
you've now hit a point. I think the
board's going to have to get involved.
So, here's the latest this morning.
Tesla shedding nearly $69 billion of its
market cap after the CEO Elon Musk
unveiled his bid to start a new
political party, marking the biggest
percent drop since initial falling out
with President Trump only last month.
Joining us now to discuss is Bloomberg's
David Welsh. David, welcome to the
program, sir. Operationally, this is
something we keep going back to. Do you
see the damage being done to brand Tesla
because of the CEO's political
ambitions?
It certainly is. You look at research
about who buys electric vehicles. It
tends to be people who are politically
left of center uh or you know, very left
of center. Republicans, they you tend to
be just less interested in buying them.
So, when you align yourself with Trump,
that hurts. And then he's got his own
political party. He's got some views
that are not popular with certain
people. Look, there's a reason that
other CEOs like Mary Bar of General
Motors don't really say much about
politics. They stay very neutral. They
play along with Trump because they need
to work within his policies, but they
don't they just don't get involved
publicly and make big statements because
they want to sell a car to anybody. And
I think that really has hurt Tesla. And
uh I it's clearly upsetting shareholders
too that Elon keeps sticking his nose
into politics and he sort of wants to
live there and not live in uh the Tesla
headquarters keeping the company
running.
It certainly hurt shareholders
yesterday. David W there of Bloomberg
over in Detroit. Not so much this
morning. Bouncy back by just 1% in the
pre-market. Joining us now one of the
biggest bulls on this stock for quite a
while on the street. Arinvest CEO Kathy
Wood. Kathy, thanks for making time for
us this morning. Let's just talk about
what Dan IV said to us yesterday that he
believes Elon Musk is crossing a line
and that the board needs to step in. Do
you share that view?
Well, I have to tell you, we've been
dealing with uh controversy around Elon
Musk in one form or another since we
first bought the stock when the company
was founded in 2014. And we own Tesla in
it's one of the top holdings in three of
our uh ETFs. So, ARK, W and and Q. So we
are watching this like a hawk. No
question about it. But with the
experience over the last 11 years. Um we
turn around today and see uh Tesla
really not an EV manufacturer anymore
moving into the robo taxi age we believe
successfully and we believe it will
scale much better than most of its
competitors. We see uh SpaceX really
owning 90% of all of the satellites out
there. Neuralink transforming uh your
lives of paralyzed people, people with
ALS and probably most surprising of all
XAI. Now we own all of those again in
our venture fund following them very
carefully. Uh XAI is uh on some
benchmarks. It hit a point that 03 Pro
hit in June. It hit it in February. So
you know we are very focused on barriers
to entry technology moes uh and we
believe that the moes that uh Elon has
built and obviously this is not just
Elon he's attracting the best and the
brightest to help uh solve some of the
world's biggest problems. So again uh we
do uh uh trust the board and the board's
instincts here uh and uh and and we stay
out of politics. Well, we'd love your
opinion on the current situation just on
Tesla specifically. You mentioned some
phenomenal companies doing some
incredible things. For Tesla, though, do
you believe that Elon can pursue his
political ambitions at the same time
pursuing the best interest of Tesla
shareholders?
Uh, one of the announcements Elon made
recently is that he is going to oversee
sales in the US and in Europe. And uh
when he puts his mind on something, he
usually gets the job done. So uh I I
think he's much less distracted now than
he was, let's say, in the White House
247.
At what point do you see sort of the
political landscape shifting though, not
just for Tesla, but for the halves and
the have nots in some of the big tech
space? I know you've had a complicated
relationship, say, with Apple, which
seems uniquely pegged by some of these
tariffs. Is there anything that you
could see that would make you like that
stock again or do you think that really
it is going to fall out of Magnificent
7?
Yes, we've been watching Apple for a
long time with an AI lens. Uh, and that
started, I'm going to say about seven
years ago when it was becoming serious
about autonomous vehicles. If you think
about the ultimate mobile device, it's
an autonomous vehicle and that should
have been uh Apple's to win. uh and what
we've seen there is turn one turnover of
management teams after another and it's
all you know autonomous driving is an AI
project it's the largest AI project on
earth uh we believe and so losing the
talent that it has and as I understand
uh it lost another one today to Mark
Zuck Zuckerberg's top 50 so um they've
had a lot of trouble in this regard and
um I think the burden of proof is on
them.
Do you think that it is time to follow
the talent? That this is going to work
the gamble that you're seeing over at
Meta and that that's the path of travel
for the other big tech companies that
are going to just eat some of the
companies from the inside out, take the
talent, not necessarily buy the company.
You know, it's a very good question. And
we're trying to figure out if what Mark
Zuckerberg is doing today is much like
he did when he was pivoting hard to the
metaverse. Uh which proved uh because he
thought that was the next big thing. Um
and and that was incorrect. Uh AI is the
next big thing. No question about it. Uh
and and you do have to have the right
DNA and you have to move fast and break
things as he would say. Uh so you know
it'll be interesting to see if he if
he's able to uh turn his open-source
strategy and and we've admired that
quite a bit in terms of generative AI um
into a leader again or as we were
observing it uh Apple's Llama 3 at the
time was improving at a faster rate uh
than some of OpenAI's models uh and that
was true of open source generally and
then that has stopped. So, yes, he had
to do something. Uh, is this the right
thing? Why did that stop? I don't know.
Kathy, next time you're with us, we'll
have a longer conversation. Two leaders,
incredible men doing incredible things.
Arinvest CEO Kathy Wood from New York.
This is Bloomberg.
The administration is looking for that
last bit of pressure to get these deals
where they want them to be. This is a
perpetual negotiation that we'll
continue to see unfold.
This is President Trump at his best,
bringing the pressure and supporting his
negotiators.
The market is trying to operate like
this is going to be a nothing burger.
But we are seeing tariff rates go up
as the days and weeks accumulate. We're
going to get greater certainty on what
the trade policy posture is going to be.
This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
This was the week. This was it. July
9th, that was the day you would get
additional clarity on trade. You're not
getting it. Like from New York City this
morning. Good morning. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
with equity futures on the S&P slightly
firmer, just a touch positive, up by a
tenth of 1%, a bounce back on the NASDAQ
of 2/10en of 1%. Your week ahead still
includes jobless claims coming up in a
few days. It still includes earnings
from Delta Airlines. What it won't
include is clarity on July 9th on the
path forward for trade
because ultimately that can's been
kicked and people are watching that and
they're saying okay so August 1st is the
new July 9th maybe. Have we gotten any
certainty? And I think that's a valid
question. Is there a certainty in the
uncertainty the fact that there is some
sort of prolonging in the uh deadline at
a time when companies are figuring that
the cap is not 145% maybe it's 25% maybe
it's something like that and that I
think is what people are trying to
figure out at this most people think the
temperature was taken down after
liberation day if you look at some of
the letters that went out yesterday it
does look like another maximalist
approach escalate to deescalate because
essentially the rates are the same but
Trump's giving them three more weeks to
come to the table I'm still waiting on
what happens with countries like India,
like the European Union, like
Switzerland where we know that there
have been tons of negotiations at the
table and a lot of talks potentially
this week we get actual frameworks and
agreements with some of those countries.
Investors want to make it really simple.
July 9th was meant to be a clearing
event. It's not going to be anymore. For
the Federal Reserve, they were going to
wait to get two months of data, maybe
sit there in September and reduce
interest rates. When they get together
at the end of July, they still won't
know what the tariffs are going to be a
day later.
Is certainty overrated? I mean, I'm I'm
asking this question genuinely because
we've been saying, you know, we just
need certainty and then we can keep
flying and then people can keep, you
know, figuring out their plans and
stocks can keep going up and businesses
keep going and the economy will be just
fine and we don't get the certainty and
people are saying stocks can keep going
up and the economy is going to be just
fine. So, what gives with that? You
know, is it basically the uncertainty is
something we can live with if there's a
band that it sort of ranges within
with Trump. The only thing certain is
it's going to be bumpy and it's going to
be uncertain. But this from the uh
National Foreign Trade Council
represents large US firms saying the
strategic uncertainty is producing some
short-term results but continuing to
threat exorbitant tariff rates is just
paralyzing for the business
decision-making and erodess trust with
their allies and major trading partners.
So at some point the business is still
businesses are still potentially holding
off on massive decisions until they get
the final results.
Inflation hasn't spiked, the economy
hasn't collapsed. Is that sufficient to
sit here and say that things are okay? I
don't know. But for the time being,
things seem to be okay.
July 15th or later this week when we get
Delta earnings, we'll see how okay it is
and what pockets are falling out or not.
What pockets are accelerating. It was
not that long ago when inflation was a
good thing for companies. If we do get
inflation, can they pass that along? I
mean, we're talking about Porsche having
lower sales. Is that really the
clientele that's going to be worried
about some sort of price increase or is
it a product mix issue? I really I keep
going back to this with particularly
the Porsche 911. the economics of the
Porsche 911.
Okay. So, people are really out there
saying, "Well, I don't know. An extra
couple
race right now." Chairman PS up early
emergency meeting.
I don't think I could go from 120,000 to
121,000.
Not sure that moves the dial for them.
Correct.
For the July meeting anyway.
Oh,
might move the dial in September. Bramo,
you never know. Might be really freaked
out about that.
Oh no, the Porsche prices.
Futures this morning positive by not
even a tenth of 1% on the S&P. Busy 60
minutes coming up. Alex Arman of
Barclays as markets keep climbing a wall
of worry. Stacy Ruscon of Bernstein on
tariff whiplash in the chip sector and
Amanda Linham of Black Rockck on the
risk of being too defensive. We begin
this hour with stocks pushing higher as
President Donald Trump signals a
willingness to continue trade
negotiations. Alexman of Barclay's
writing the backdrop for risk assets is
as benign today as it has been all year.
There remains room for stocks to grind
higher into month end. Alex joins us now
for more. Alex, good morning.
Morning. What's the price of the
continued uncertainty here?
So, I think the price of continued
uncertainty is that we're going to end
up with um essentially an environment
where I think I mean Lisa I think pretty
much covered it. You know, if we're just
going to have a period where where
companies can't make decisions anymore
um and consumers are going to hold off
their spending decisions at some point
that is going to bite. We talked about
this a while ago if you remember. We may
be past the sort of peak uncertainty.
We're probably not past the peak
negativity. I think we've just got to
sort of take stock of the fact that at
the end of the day tariffs is another
word for taxes. There is a tax that is
coming towards the the economy and
whether we split that between the
corporate or the consumer is kind of
irrelevant at this point. We're going to
have that tax that will get hit.
The way you explain it implies the worst
of the data is still in front of us and
not behind us. But what we've heard from
many in equity investors so far this
morning and the past week is they're
okay with that because the Fed's going
to cut interest rates and it's going to
be better in 2026. Do you take a
different view?
I would take a slightly more balanced
view. I think really the the my view
stems and starts at where one two
things. One is positioning. So from a
positioning perspective, we talked about
this before. I think that's a lot of the
reason why stocks have got to where they
are. The problem is now stocks are where
they are and we're back at trading at
sort of 22 times. If we start taking an
optimistic view on 2026 earnings, we're
trading on around about 2021 times. So
stocks are are not particularly cheap as
a starting point. And that at the end of
the day is going to create a a bit of a
headwind in terms of what the path
forward is for risk assets. Risk assets
are members thinking, oh, everything's
fine because nothing's actually hit the
economy yet. Of course, it hasn't
because we've been in this purgatory
period. So, we have to work off an
assumption that there will be a tariff
hit in the second half of the year. And
it will either hit the consumer or it's
going to hit corporates or potentially a
little bit of both.
You're the most bearish bullish person
I've ever met in my entire life. You're
making an argument and I'd say, "Okay,
so you're selling stock. No, I'm buying
them because I think they're going to
continue going up." So can you square
that circle please?
Yeah sure. So look we came into the the
quote that that was that that that
Jonathan just gave just now was
basically uh us at the beginning of June
which was we were bullish and we to a
degree still are largely as a foundation
of AI capex um this fiscal tailwind from
the OBB which is going to be about 40 to
50 basis points. Um, and then
positioning. I think you've really got
to put positioning front and center as
part of your investment process right
now. Because when investors were so
disconnected in terms of their
positioning to the market visav where
the S&P was trading, we knew that there
was a systematic bid that was going to
actually drive risk higher. That's still
happening today. And actually, that's
underpinning a lot of our bullishness
right now. But fundamentally, it's
difficult to it's becoming more
difficult to get extremely bullish on
the index at these levels. So what we've
actually decided to do at this point is
start to look at a little bit more
rotationary under the surface and
primarily that's looking at something
within the small cap space. So we're
actually turning quite constructive on
small caps here and that's driven by the
OBB primarily um simply because it's
getting it's getting a disproportionate
benefit to smaller companies at this
juncture as a function of the
depreciation amortization and the also
the interest deductibility. You put
those together and actually that
provides a significant tailwind to
smaller companies within the market. So
that's where we're actually quite
constructive right now.
Incredibly counterintuitive if you
expect the economy to go to roll over to
be constructive on small caps. But I get
your point about the OBB and how that
could potentially be stimulative. If
it's stimulative, how does the Fed cut
rates at a time when potentially
inflation is going up? Potentially you
get some sort of fiscal boost from the
one big beautiful bill. And the economy
isn't rolling over yet. So there is this
idea that you could get this absorption
of some of the price increases by the
consumer.
I'm not sure about whether the consu
consumer can absorb any more price
increases. I mean, do you really want to
see your coffee go from $7 here in
Manhattan to $8 tomorrow? You know,
I get free coffee.
Fine. Okay. Well,
carry on. Carry on.
Convo. Let the man speak
about your matcha.
All right. Move on. Sorry.
We fully understood where you were
going. Continue, please.
So So, so someone's going to have to
absorb it somewhere. whether it whe even
if you're getting your free coffee,
someone's paying for the free someone's
paying for the coffee. So or you know
and so therefore is it actually the
corporate instead? Anyway, the point I'm
trying to make is is that I think there
is an absorption capacity within the
economy. We could talk about a slowdown
that's not a recession. We could talk
about interest rate cuts by the Fed, but
we're talking maybe 2550 basis points.
Is this really going to move the needle
off where the you know where the base
level is right now? And I don't think
it's material. So when I think about
things like small caps and why I'm
constructive on them, that's really
driven again by the positioning
argument. And I again I really want to
hit home on this because positioning is
ultimately was driven a lot of the
market higher over the past couple of
months. It's been positioning and it's
been earnings upgrades that's largely
been driven by um the FX component as
well. And I think that that positioning
dynamic is now going to start
percolating into other parts of risk.
Alex, I'd love to ask you about what
you're talking about the fiscal tailwind
for the one big beautiful bill. Won't
that just fade when the economy is
confronted with the tariff rates? Don't
they cancel each other out?
I think they do eventually. And I think
but eventually what we're trying to do,
Marie, is trade the sequencing. And I
think that's really important. If you if
you I mean, if you take the S&P in 2025,
we're up whatever four, five, 6% or so.
That clearly is not telling the picture
of what's happened over the course of of
this year in in the first half. And so
every month has really been a story in
its own way. And I think all we're
trying to do is continue that story.
Each chapter is about one month long at
the moment.
Someone else mentioned this. It's about
the sequencing. What's next then when it
comes to policy in Washington?
Well, I still think we're going to we're
going to get clarity or hopefully some
clarity on August 1st in terms of those
um those tariffs. But I think what's
important is is that yesterday as a case
in point, you had a bit of negativity
that the letters got sent, but we've
still got 3 weeks where we can get deals
done. Uh and I think people are
forgetting again the sequencing there.
What is the probability that we're going
to get announcements from Switzerland or
Europe or whoever it may be? That's
going to be positive incrementally for
risk. So, I think that's a that's an
important point.
But there's one cloud and it's China.
Isn't that going to be months and years
in the entire Trump administration as
they try to get a grand bargain?
Most likely. And I think it's
interesting that the rare earth deal was
only set for a few months as an example.
So, yes, we are going to have this issue
down the line. I will just highlight one
point though in terms of the uncertainty
and Trump providing the bumpy ride as
you call it. I think it's important to
clarify that between 2017 and 2021, I
when Trump was actually in office, he
actually oversaw a lower period of the
VIX than average going back to 1990. If
and that includes COVID if you take out
the actual COVID year months basically
Q1, Q2 of 2020, it's dramatic. We're
talking four or five points lower in on
average in the VIX. So even though Trump
may talk a bumpy ride, actually his
track record is a lot less volatile than
you think.
When did that vault trade blow up? early
2018.
That was uh that was February 2018.
Yeah.
That have anything to do with policy?
Uh no, it had nothing to had to do with
a load of short short VIX positioning.
I remember all of that. That feels like
a lifetime ago, doesn't it?
Yes. And people still talk about it
today because they'll think about
there's a lot of like shortvall
strategies in the market again, but
they're different kind of shortvall.
It's not it's not selling puts, so to
speak. It's selling calls, which is
which is a very different prospect in
terms of the the impact it can have on
the market.
Good to see you, sir.
Nice to see you.
Grab a coffee on the way out. I will.
It's free.
Right. Good. Alex Alman of Barclays. I'm
told it's really good. Appreciate your
time as always. Let's give an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Joining us now, Lizzie
Burton. Hey, Lizzie.
Hey, John. President Trump has delayed
imposing higher tariffs on US imports
until August 1st while sending letters
to countries detailing the levies
they'll face. The letters include 25%
tariffs on goods from Japan and South
Korea and plans for more than a dozen
other countries. The president also
teased the possibility of further talks
ahead of the new deadline. And more than
a hundred people have been confirmed
dead in floods that tore through central
Texas over the weekend. Local, state,
and federal officials have faced
criticism in the aftermath of the
tragedy. Senator Ted Cruz downplayed
concerns that President Trump's cuts to
the National Weather Service played a
role in the failure to evacuate people.
And here's one for you, Anarie. The New
York Knicks have announced their next
head coach. Two-time NBA Coach of the
Year, Mike Brown, is going to be taking
over the team, coming off its first
conference finals appearance in 25
years. Brown is coming from a successful
three-year run in Sacramento that saw
the league's longest ever playoff
drought come to an end. And that should
be my brief. John
Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzy in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, the Morning Calls, plus Stacy
Ruscott of Bernstein on tariff whiplash
in the chip sector. Live from New York
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
You still judging Brammo?
No coffee. No pre no TSA pre check.
Listen, we all have our things.
Everyone's got their things.
Exactly.
I'm sticking up for you today.
Thank you. I appreciate that.
Pretty brutal stuff coming from the
other side of the desk.
Yeah. I would go travel with her without
TSA pre-check or global entry coming
through on my own. Global entry and let
you know that her
we've done that.
I'll see you later. I'll see you at the
last bra. Done that before. I'll do it
again. Equity futures on the S&P
positive by a tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ
up by a third. That's the price action.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, Wells Fargo raising its price tiger
on Amazon to 238 saying it's the best
setup of the mega cap internet stocks
for the second quarter earnings. That
stock is up by a third of 1%. Your
second call from TD Cow and upgrading
Capital One to buy, seeing upside
following its purchase of Discover. The
stock is up by 0.9%. And finally, Key
Bank raising its price target on shares
of Onsemi to 65, saying tariff related
pullins are driving near-term upside.
The stock is up by more than 2%. A
statement of chipmakers. The sector
facing potential headwinds after
President Trump unveiled 25% tariffs on
both Japan and South Korea. Samsung's
profit falling for the first time since
23 with a company pointing to US chip
curbs weighing on results. Joining us
around a table, Mandep Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Mandy, good
morning.
Morning.
How difficult are things getting for
this industry?
Well, right now we are seeing two
pockets. one where things are really
booming on the AI data center side and
the other is where tariffs will weigh in
in terms of the pricing for some of
these devices whether it's an Apple
iPhone or a Samsung device. So clearly
there is that factor but there is no
doubt that the AI data center wave is
what's driving the bulk of the demand
and the investments and that continues
to be very strong irrespective of the
tariffs. How do you factor in the impact
of tariffs when you don't know the
tariff rate or you don't know the date
the tariff rate will take effect?
Well, so a lot of the speculative pull
forward I think is driven by the
uncertaintity and that's been playing
out over the last 3 months. So for
companies that are looking for more gear
that they have to get from China or the
countries that may end up paying much
higher tariffs, they have been
frontloading a lot of this stuff and I'm
sure it's going to keep going until
there is certaintity because there is a
lot of back and forth when it comes to
the tariffs. Is the uncertainty more
about the tariffs when it comes to the
semis? Or is this really about the
potential restrictions and what those
are actually going to ultimately look
like at a time when we've seen a roll
back of some of the initial constraints
put on China with respect to
semiconductor uh manufacturing equipment
etc. Isn't that the bigger issue?
Well, so when I look at the China
exposure for a company like Nvidia or
any of the other chip makers, it has
somewhat derised at least for this year.
anything that ends up happening in terms
of a deal will be positive news for
these companies to be able to sell to
China. With that being said, you know,
there is always that aspect that what if
China really decouples in terms of their
chip dependency and you know use their
own Huawei chips or something else and
what does it do for the market long
term? In the case of Nvidia, I mean it's
a 20% revenue exposure. So that you
completely take out that forever. So
that's what I think the administration
doesn't want, which is why they backed
off from the diffusion rule. And I do
think they want the US-based companies
to be able to sell to China because at
the end of the day, it is revenue for
Nvidia or AMD or all these chip makers.
Here's a quote for you this morning. Our
neck hurts. Liberation Day, on again,
offagain tariffs, export controls, rates
skyrocketing, increases in global
conflicts, you name it. When a car rolls
over that many times, it's natural to
have some wishlash as a result. Joining
us now, Stacy Rascott of Bernsteeen.
Stacy, that was your quote. You all said
to sleep through the accident, walk away
unscathed. Stacy, can we walk away from
all of this unscathed in the sector that
you cover?
I don't know. The the reason we said
that is it it was just sort of funny
when when I wrote that note, which was a
couple of weeks ago. Um, given all the
volatility and everything that happened,
if you just gone to sleep on January
1st, you would have been fine, right?
That's that's kind of what I meant by
and it's been really amazing to me um
amid all of the volatility everything
that's going on like if you just look at
the end points how stable things have
actually been um and we'll see if that
continues again. I don't know it looks
like um the the news flow and the
volatility is starting to pick up again
as as you mentioned earlier
but what you're basically saying is that
a lot of these rates can be negotiated
away but at the same time Stacy a lot of
them can also stick. What happens if
they do stick?
Yeah you bet. So, you know, we got we
got these tariff letters yesterday.
Again, it was on Korea and Japan and
Thailand and Malaysia and a bunch of
other companies. To be fair, most of
those rates are effectively what the
reciprocal rates were anyways, plus or
minus, right? And we're all waiting to
see if the reciprocal rates actually get
put back on August 1st. So, this does
sort of feel like a last hammer, you
know, to try to maybe get a deal before
that deadline happens. So, maybe So,
we'll see what happens. I don't know if
these rates actually go into play. I
don't know how long they stick if if
they go into play. I don't know if
there's any changes like we we we'll
we'll have to see what happens. Um in
terms of the actual risk and you asked
the question earlier, how do you size
this stuff if you don't know what is it?
It's very difficult, right? And it's
sort of even more complex for semis
because most semiconductors don't enter
the US, you know, by themselves. They
enter inside other things like
smartphones and PCs and cars and and
what have you. And so most of the tariff
impact that we've been looking at so far
has been indirect. you know, it's that
the end products maybe get more
expensive and and there's elasticity of
demand and so you have less demand for
those and therefore you you may have
less demand for semiconductors and to be
fair it's it's hard to size and in the
near term I think I heard earlier like
you talked about we've been actually
seeing some pull forward which which
makes sense given all that uncertainty
now there is one area um for direct
impact that I think we are worried
waiting for and this is the sectoral
tariffs that the 232 investigation that
the commerce department put on on April
1st um and that may directly impact
semiconductors and the common period's
over, we're waiting for a decision. Um,
my suspicion is that those will get put
on at some point and the impact sort of
depends, right? I mean, if it's a 25%
tariff on semis, that kind of sucks, but
we could probably deal with it. Like
semiconductor ASPs broadly are up 50%
over the last four or five years
anyways. You know, if it's a 100%
tariff, then like that's a that's a
whole other ball game. Like, and I I
don't know what that's going to look
like until we actually find out. So that
is sort of a headline out there, a
headline rift that I think we're waiting
for in the space. Now,
what's the tariff rate that would
actually torpedo the AI trade right now?
Well, well, it's interesting. So the AI
trade, like the AI servers,
the way that that the tariff structure
is currently set, they're actually not
as exposed because it turns out most of
the AI servers that come into the US
come in through Mexico and they're USMCA
compliant. There's no tariffs on them at
all. And so to the extent that those
supply chains can run through Mexico um
uh that actually preserves things. I
also think there is one advantage with
with the AI is that the demand is
actually off the charts. And whereas you
know for a smartphone all of a sudden if
your iPhone cost doubles they may sell
less of them. If the pricing of AI
servers were to go up 20% or whatever my
suspicion is they would still get
bought. And so there's a natural you
know you know push of demand on the AI
on the AI side that I think is helping a
lot. And then you have this other avenue
um through the USMCA that's the the US
uh Mexico Canada agreement uh free trade
agreement uh that helps to at least
somewhat insulate them at least relative
to other spaces um that have the
potential to be hit more by by tariffs
if the tariffs actually get put into
place.
Stacy, you mentioned smartphones. Can we
just finish on that? What it means for
Qualcomm, a lack of demand there? Just
what is price at the moment from your
standpoint?
Well, so Qualcomm is very very cheap,
right? And I mean it's it's people are
worried. We know Apple's going away and
like there's there's there's headwinds
and there's no catalyst from that. Now
that being said, in my opinion, it's you
know you you could argue like even even
with e xapp I think this they're growing
EPS double digits and it's like 14 or 15
times earnings x apples. But but if
people are waiting for a catalyst there
is there isn't much for now. But I
actually think it's sort of an
interesting it's a good time at least to
sort of like sharpen your pencils. you
know 2027 and beyond when Apple get the
Apple revenue gets small starts to look
interesting so it's 18 months away um in
terms of the smartphone demand and again
around tariffs the US um imports about
10% of the world's smartphones half of
those are iPhones more than half of
those are iPhones so it's it's really
not so much that we import a lot of
smartphones we import a lot of iPhones
and again Apple started to design their
own chips it it's that revenue is going
away from Qualcomm we already know that
and so the extent that like tariff you
know higher prices and everything might
impact fact smartphone demand in the US
to the extent that it's insulated or
isolated more to to the Apple side of
the equation than the Android um it's
actually less fundamentally impactful
for Qualcomm um over the long term
because that business is going away
anyways
smart Stacy appreciate your time thanks
for making time for us enjoyed the note
as well in the past few weeks Stacy
Ruskcom there of Bernstein with the
latest on that business mentioned Apple
at the end there Mandep just quickly
this war for talent meta going after
Apple what was your reaction to that
story
well Meta right now has the compute,
they have the researchers, and they are
spending big. When it comes to Apple,
they haven't even started investing in
their own data centers. So, I'm not
surprised they're losing talent because
if you're an AI researcher, Meta or Open
AI or Enthropic are the companies you
want to work at because they're
investing big. They have the Apple still
has the distribution, but they have
clearly underinvested. So, I'm not
surprised they're losing talent.
And Zuckerberg comes along writing
checks with a lot of zeros, apparently.
tens of millions of dollars and that's
what you think that college interns
should aspire to
real money.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Next on the program, Michael Reed of RBC
Capital Markets on the future for rate
cards. Plus Yhara Arnand with your
morning movers. Taking a look at a
downgrade on an incoming member of the
S&P 500.
[Music]
Stocks are positive by a tenth of 1%.
They open about 60 minutes away. just
yesterday snapping a two-day winning
streak on the S&P pulling back from
all-time highs with the biggest move
lower since midJune. But based on what
we saw at the start of April, this is
nothing as we delay the trade decision
from April 9th or rather April 9th on a
90-day pause to July 9th from July 9th
now to where are we? August 1st. Am I up
to speed just about?
Maybe. Are we up to speed ever August
1st? Can August 1st become September
4th? And that really is going to be the
key question. And then what do we have?
A policy of uncertainty
and a Federal Reserve that is stuck
between a rock and a hard place and
isn't cutting interest rates anytime
soon unless this labor market starts to
crack. More data on the labor market
later this week. With 60 minutes until
that cash open, let's get you some
morning movers. We can do that with
Yahara Arnard. Hey yhara.
Hi John. We start with data dog which as
you said is joining the S&P but today it
is lower 2.6%
on a downgrade. Guggenheim slapped it
with a rare cell rating. And the reason
has to do with Open AI, which is Data
Dog's biggest customer. Guggenheim says
that OpenAI may be ditching its tools,
opting instead for an in-house system,
and they say that could cut into revenue
in the second half for this company.
Next up, we have shares of Circle
Internet. They are down 3% after Mizuo
initiated coverage on the stable coin
issuer and gave it a sell rating. The
firm says that Wall Street's revenue
expectations are way too high for the
company, citing rate cuts coming and
also rising costs from its partners like
Coinbase. They are setting an $85 price
target on this stock, which is much
lower than the current levels. And we
end with Tesla worth taking another look
at. It is still up about 1% here in the
pre-market after it fell 6.8 yesterday
on that news that Elon Musk was forming
a new political party. And this is
coming as we get a new note from Dan Ies
calling this the tipping point for Tesla
saying that the board needs to act now
and set the ground rules for Musk. John
Yahara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. That stock bouncing back by 1%.
Let's turn to fixed income and get to
the bond market. Yields for 10 and
30-year treasuries climbing to the
highest levels in more than a week ahead
of new auctions as the June payrolls
report pour some cold water on rate cut
bets. Joining us now is Ira Jersey of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Ira, let's just
start with the rate cut bets and deal
with the front end of the curve and then
we can deal with some of the supply we
might get in the next few weeks. It
feels like after the data on Thursday
that we were pricing out rate cuts, not
pricing them in. At the same time, a lot
of economists said the details of that
payrolls report were actually quite
fragile. So, what's the outlook for rate
cuts look like from where you stand now?
Yeah, so well I actually think that
we're not going to see any rate cuts
until probably the fourth quarter of
this year. just it has to do with data
timing mostly and also the continued
fear over how tariffs are going to
affect inflation, inflation expectations
more than anything, but the market
certainly has priced out and then now
has priced back in uh a possibility of a
September uh rate cut. Um so we're still
interestingly like we're still only
pricing uh 50 basis points of rates cuts
for this year. It's just a matter of
when they start, right? So do they start
in September and then the Fed pauses
then goes again in December or do they
go November, December? And that's
basically been the or I should say late
October actually is when the when the
Fed meeting is. So it's a the market's
kind of worried more about the start of
it rather than the magnitude of cuts.
Ira, we've been worried also about the
supply. So let's go through some
numbers. We get something at the front
end today. Three-year notes, $58 billion
worth as we work through the week.
10-year notes, 30-year bonds as well.
Ira, I've heard a lot of caution around
this story. Lisa's been talking about it
continuously for good reason. Have you
seen any concern in the actual auctions
though? Any concerns around getting the
supply to clear, getting it away?
The the June auctions went very well
actually, particularly for the longer
end of the yield curve. And I think as
we approach that 5% level, we'll see
some uh on the 30-year de bonds. We'll
actually see some some decent demand
there from the liability uh driven
investors. So things like insurance
companies and uh overseas pension funds.
But these this tariff situation does uh
have some of the is rhyming with what
happened in April and this fear that uh
that Asian investors in particular who
are pretty big buyers of the long end of
the Treasury curve might actually start
to uh u might actually start to to pull
back on the amount that they purchase.
And if that's the case then um that then
that's why we watch these auctions to
see do we have demand in the primary
market. Now, I think threes today
probably come and go without too much
difficulty, but um but certainly
Thursday's uh 30-year auction will be
the one that really we'll be uh keenly
focused on to see if we do have a lot of
what we call indirect demand. So, these
are demands from um from investors who
bid through third parties. So, watch
that metric as a key to uh the strength
of of demand at that 30-year auction.
Ara Jersey of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Ara, thank you. Yields are rising this
morning by four basis points on a 10 and
30 year. The 30-year about 495 lease $22
billion of 30-year bonds coming in two
days time.
And it's especially concerning to Ira's
point, the international picture isn't
exactly constructive right now. There's
a question about international buyers
and whether they get demand at home or
whether they see opportunity at home.
I'm looking right now. If you look at
Japanese 30-year bonds, and I know
you're thinking, why am I mentioning
that? But yields are actually climbing
back toward the all-time highs above 3%
on this fear that Japan might have to
borrow more money to plug gaps in the
economy from the tariffs any kind of
slowdown. So this is a really
interconnected and global story.
It's a global story. Well said. It's
certainly not just the US. It's the UK
as well. We saw some of that in the last
week too. Looking ahead to some economic
data later this week as well. Jobless
claims coming up in a few days time.
Jobless claims have been okay. They've
come back down to 233. The estimate for
Thursday is 235. Joining us around a
table to discuss the labor market is
Michael Reid of RBC. Michael, good
morning.
Good morning. Thanks for having me.
Let's talk about the problems and where
the problem is. Is it a demand side
issue or a supply side problem? What is
it?
Right now, we see it as a supply side
issue. And that's not to say the demand
side is certainly slowing. It is. But
what we're looking at is a situation
where we have a record number of
retirements. uh and that really has
shown up in the data in various ways the
past couple of months. And on top of
that, you have the immigration inflows
that are slowing. So that's really
reducing the supply of workers uh who
are available to fill the job openings
that we have.
That said, some people say, well,
there's almost half the population or uh
4/10en of the population that's out of
work or just permanently unemployed. Why
can't they get back into the workforce
and just take up some of these jobs that
the immigrants are leaving behind? I
mean, that's easier said than done. If
you think about who's out of the labor
force, uh there's a lot of reasons. Uh
first and foremost, you have folks
who've retired and they're at the point
in their lives where they don't want to
work anymore. Um secondly, you have
folks who have various family reasons,
whether it's caring for uh children or
growing number of folks who are citing
reasons, you know, growing for their uh
aging parents. So, that's another reason
why people um aren't able to enter or
re-enter uh the labor market. And then
lastly, a a big bucket of workers or I
should say a big bucket of folks who um
sometimes are workers but later in life
uh exit the labor force um are really
those persons with disabilities.
So if you look at this, I guess that a
lot of this is really difficult for
people to understand, especially at a
time when college graduates are having a
hard time getting jobs. You think, okay,
people can paint a nice story for why
the labor market's actually pretty
tight, but it's not showing up in terms
of the opportunities that it feels like
there are right now. What's the
explanation for that?
Yeah. So, what the way we think about
this and what we measure is the matching
of college graduates in terms of their
degree and the job openings that we see.
So if you have folks that are graduating
say for example with degrees in business
or in engineering but the job openings
uh that we're seeing are in healthcare
for example they're not going to be able
to be employed in that sector
necessarily. Um they'd have to go back
to school and get a degree that aligned
with that. So there there is a bit of
that that structural mismatch in terms
of the skills and on top of that you
have some geog geographic mismatches
wherein the jobs that are open um you
don't have graduates necessarily who
live or want to go to that area for
various reasons.
What about wages? The Treasury Secretary
talks about when you close the border,
Americans get higher wages. Are you
seeing any evidence of that?
Well, what we're seeing right now is
that the cohort that is benefiting the
most uh due to slowing immigration is uh
the folks who don't have a college
degree. So, so really folks who maybe
went to high school um and are seeing
more opportunities as a result in
sectors like construction or leisure and
hospitality.
So, they're coming in and filling these
jobs that were formerly filled by
immigrants. In that respect, then are
you concerned about the inflationary
impact of a wage spike spiral? So some
sectors, yes, there's still very much uh
strong demand. So let's talk about
leisure and hospitality for a second. Um
that's a sector that's really uh being
driven by that retiree cohort that I
mentioned earlier. Um those are the
folks who who really uh we think are
responsible for a lot of the the travel
whether it's uh airplanes, uh stays at
hotels, dining out, etc. So there's very
much a strong demand um for those
services. uh and we're seeing that there
is still wage pressure there and when
you look at kind of that precoid path uh
for hiring in that sector uh we're still
short uh where we should have been
absent that disruption
as I hear you describe some of the
issues and some of the forces in the
labor market right now they sound more
structural than cyclical does that lead
to a different outcome of the Federal
Reserve how do they approach that issue
absolutely and and I think that's what
we're trying to figure out right now so
there are some cyclical forces at play
but they're rather muted right now. Uh
we are looking for some potential
layoffs in trade related sectors, but
we're just not seeing that yet. As you
noted, jobless claims are still very
low. So now you have to think about kind
of that natural rate of of unemployment,
nou, right? and where that is relative
to the unemployment rate now. Um they're
they're quite close, but should we be
thinking about NAU perhaps being a bit
lower given the conditions that we're
looking at less immigration and a large
retirey cohort? So maybe we're right
there and that begs a question for the
Fed, you know, do you want to start
cutting now where you think, you know,
NEU is is perhaps right where we are at
4.1%. Uh do you think Neu is perhaps a
bit higher at 4.3? are they willing to
accept uh a bump in the unemployment
rate? Uh so I think that's part of the
debate uh for the Fed, but at the end of
the day, when you have a 4.1
unemployment rate, it's really hard to
justify uh interest rate cuts. And
this goes back to something we said
earlier on in the program. When they get
together in September, what they wanted
in September was several months of
inflation data off the back of a final
decision on tariffs. They're not going
to get that several months anymore. If
we get a tariff on August one, they'll
only have a handful of months. Look,
when you look at that situation, Lisa,
the only way they can cut interest rates
based on the threshold that they've
established is if they can no longer
stand there and say, "The economy is
solid. We can wait." If they have to
say, "The economy is starting to crack.
We can't wait anymore." That's the
reason to cut interest rates.
They have to see the unemployment rate
go up significantly, and that's not what
we're seeing. And frankly, what we just
heard from Michael Reid to me highlights
why we're not seeing that increase in
unemployment. Even though it seems like
companies aren't hiring quite as much,
you've got the cyclical changes and
you've got the structural changes and
you put them together and you say, "What
can the Fed do? How does the Fed
respond?" Well, they can't go out and
train people. So, how do they sort of
use policy to deal with something that
is pretty profound
and still not that well understood at
the moment at least? More jobs data
later this week. As I say, initial
jobless claims dropping on Thursday
morning. Michael Reed there of RBC
Capital Markets. Michael, thank you,
sir. Appreciate it. Let's keep an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie
Burton. Hey Lizzy.
Hi John. President Trump hosted Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the
White House last night. The Israeli
leader told Trump he'd nominated him for
a Nobel Peace Prize. The US is pushing
for a ceasefire in Gaza that could end
more than 18 months of fighting and see
the release of the hostages still held
by Hamas. Elsewhere, Apple's top
executive in charge of AI models is
leaving the company for meta. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that Ruo
Ming Pang is joining Meta's new super
intelligence team after being offered a
package worth tens of millions of
dollars a year. And Shien confidentially
filed for an IPO in Hong Kong. The
Financial Times reporting that the fast
fashion retailer sought the China
Security Regulatory Commission's
approval for its listing. Sheen had
filed for an IPO in London about 18
months ago, but has been unable to
secure regulatory approval. That should
be more brief. John
Lizzie, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus,
we'll catch up with Amanda Linham at
BlackRock on the risk of being too
defensive. That conversation up next,
live from New York. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Brao getting absolutely hammered in the
commercial break. This continues.
I will get TSA approval. Listen, I don't
need to be a charity case.
I don't need to get your guest passes.
Crowdund this now.
We're not going to crowdfund my TSA
approval. Let's move on.
Chaos this morning. Let's move on.
Equities on the S&P just about positive
by a tenth of 1%. April 2nd was absolute
chaos. April 9th, we've got a 90-day
extension before we even arrive at July
9th, we've had another extension of 3
weeks. We'll see you again on August 1.
Equities positive on the NASDAQ 100 by
2/10 of 1%. That's the price action as
we count you down to the opening bell.
Your trading diary for the week ahead is
shaping up as follows. At 11:00 a.m.
Eastern time, we'll hear from the
President of the United States holding a
cabinet meeting on Wednesday. Fed
minutes on Thursday. Earnings from Delta
Airlines, plus an important round of
jobless claims which retreated just last
week and we'll see if that continues for
the weeks ahead. More comments from
President Trump expected in a few hours
time. Then more letters expected as
well. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us
now for the latest. Good morning, Tyler.
Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. Well,
we're not just waiting on President
Trump to speak at 11:00 a.m. Eastern
because he's convening his cabinet,
which often means that he goes around
the room and he has officials give
updates in their particular area of
expertise. We are expecting some of
those top trade officials that we watch
closely to give updates as well,
including the Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant, the Commerce Secretary Howard
Lutnik, and the USR Jameson Greer, who
we all are understanding is have been
holding these trade uh negotiations in
recent days ahead of this 3-week
extension that we've now been given.
We've been talking a lot about those
countries that did get letters like
Japan and South Korea, but we are on
watch for if any other ones will get
letters too because it's been
interesting to hear from sources
familiar telling Bloomberg News that
some countries actually appear on the
cusp of perhaps some framework
agreements including Taiwan, India, and
also the European Union and what's
really been a reversal of favor for the
trading block. But John, people familiar
tell us here that ultimately to get some
sort of monumental breakthrough in order
to announce the agreement that was going
to be very difficult to reach by the
original deadline of this Wednesday,
July 9th.
It's Kendall, thank you. Monitoring the
latest down at the White House with the
president of the United States. I have
to say that's been a surprise for me
over the past few months. The fact that
Europe's no longer back of the line,
that they might just accept the 10% with
some exemptions and we move on.
And it was a reversal from Europe as
well. They were not willing to at first
deal with the 10% across the baseline
tariff. They were going to come out and
retaliate. It's interesting because
basically Europe and Japan have swapped
places in terms of where they are in the
order and basically the willingness of
this administration to do a deal.
That's the situation in Washington.
Here's the view on Wall Street this
morning. Amanda Lam of Black Rockck
writing the following. We expect
episodes of macro volatility. We remain
attuned to the opportunity cost of being
too defensive and underrisisked in this
environment. Amanda joins us now for
more. Amanda, good morning.
Good morning. Thank you for having me.
Great to see you. The risk of being too
defensive with stocks at all-time highs
and credit spreads near the tights for
the year. Y explain, please.
So, I think uh in a time like this where
there's a lot of uncertainty, often the
reflex from investors is to just
generically move up in quality. And
we've been pushing back against that and
basically saying that there's a there's
a case for selectively moving down in
credit quality. Um if you look, for
example, high yield total returns have
outperformed investment grade year to
date. subsets of of high yield the
including double Bs have outperformed
triple B's. So I think what the market
is telling you is that um yes we're
expecting volatility there's residual
uncertainty but if you focus on kind of
back to basics credit work companies are
navigating this and we are paying
incredibly close attention to the
microlevel commentary of companies in
this environment and I think what the
market is actually seizing on is
companies guiding towards 2026 and 2027
outlining all of the operational levers
that they can pull to navigate this
uncertainty and I think that's what's
giving some comfort now is there a lot
of scope for spread tightening? No. But
are income uh are all-in yields and
corporate credit still attractive? Yes.
And I think that's really uh what we're
emphasizing.
That's exactly what I wanted to ask you.
The idea that spreads are near all-time
tights on high yield bonds. You're not
getting compensated in addition to
treasuries that much at all relative to
history. Why doesn't that worry you?
Well, the there is some market
segmentation there. So, um, the the the
trade-off between treasuries, yes, the
spreads are tight, but back in in late
2024, we've characterized that as
warranted resilience. So, those spread
levels, there are a host of reasons,
macro, fundamental, technical, why those
spreads can remain in that tight range.
Um, I think from our perspective, when
we talk to investors, they're looking to
deploy capital into corporate credit.
And so, what we're really saying is if
you're buying corporate credit, buy it
for the income, the carry, the yield,
not for the potential total return boost
from tighter spreads. And I think really
the point we're just trying to make is
if you're waiting for a sustained
selloff in credit spreads, we view that
the bar for that is pretty high.
So it's pretty remarkable that not only
is this not April 2nd, but that here we
are with yet another trade war brewing
and escalate to deescalate. And not only
are people not getting bearish, we've
got David Cen over at Goldman Sachs
upgrading his S&P forecast. You've got
an upgrade over at Bank of America. And
here you are in the credit space at
BlackRock saying there's a risk we're
not getting risky enough and that
essentially that's what we have to go.
Are we just discounting the policy
uncertainty entirely? Is that sort of
been stripped out of the picture?
We're not discounting it. The title of
our third quarter outlook for example
was two-sided risks. So we're absolutely
recognizing that there's still a lot of
uncertainty. There are still a lot of
potholes that we need to navigate in
this environment. What we're saying,
however, is that um the economy has
shown relative resilience and so taking
a complete riskoff posture in our view
isn't the way to go. In fact, um again,
going back to the lower rated pockets of
the corporate credit market, they've
outperformed. It kind of reminds me of
in the early stages of the Fed's rate
hiking cycle when rates were being hiked
significantly and there was an
expectation in Europe and the US that it
would lead to an imminent recession, the
economy surprised to the upside. I feel
like that's a little bit what's
happening in the corporate sector is
that it's actually turning out that
corporates have a lot of levers to pull
to navigate this. Some are within
product mix, some are vendor
relationships, inventory purchases, and
so they're actually navigating this. And
I think the bottoms up credit work is
signaling that there is a little bit
more resilience I think than many
expected. That does not mean however
that we aren't we are expecting a more
challenging growth inflation mix
inflation mix. So that doesn't mean that
we aren't expecting some softening in
the data from here. Were you able to get
to this point because we saw reversals
from this administration when the market
pushed back on some of their policy
proposals?
I think we got to this point because
companies have been a little bit more
forthcoming about the options that they
have at their disposal. And so when you
look at retail earnings, for example,
over the last month, um, some of these
retail companies have actually guided
towards they can actually offset the
full cost of tariffs starting in 2026.
Yes, there may be some near-term
volatility and some near-term headwind,
but I think those sort of concrete
details are what's giving investors the
comfort to to actually do the bottoms up
credit work. That doesn't mean that all
these companies are created equal. There
will be some winners and losers in this.
Uh but I do think it's hard to ignore
when companies actually present that
that full suite of levers.
Do we need chairman power to cut?
Um I think uh I think that's probably
more of a a boon for the equity market,
frankly, than the credit market. I think
actually if rates stayed in this regime
that's a pretty supportive technical for
corporate credit in terms of allin
yields there's been some increase in
default rates uh but by and large
companies have incorporated that higher
borrowing cost so I don't think it's a
prerequisite for continued resilience
and corporate credit I think maybe the
equity market might be disappointed a
little
we can live with rates in the fours on
Fed funds
yes I mean you've seen you've seen some
floating rate borrowers um default but
those are largely repeat defaulters so
by definition that should have been
priced into the market I I Ideally, it
would be nice to have some additional
normalization cuts, but you know, our
view, we're not expecting easing. So, I
I think that's really the base case for
us.
What you just said there was fascinating
that any kind of rate cuts would help
the equity market more than the credit
market. Is the credit market now
clipping the coupon all-in yield story,
period, full stop. And if rates go down,
that will be challenging in terms of
justifying why you should purchase uh
credit at these spreads. I think
psychologically there is um some
hesitation for investors when we if we
would see for example high yield all-in
yields below 7%. Right? That kind of
gets some attention. I I think it's um I
do think that it's more of a a why are
you buying credit for carry for income
for yield not for the total return boost
from tighter spreads or lower rates.
That's historically been the driver of
total returns. Not our real view in this
cycle. For sure it would help fixed rate
long duration product. Uh but I I think
if you look at the fact pattern of
inflation above target, growth holding
in, still residual uncertainty, the
commentary from the Fed, we're not
expecting the first rate cut until uh
the fourth quarter. Uh so really that's
that's kind of our base case.
We heard that again earlier this hour,
Amanda Lam at Black Rockck. Appreciate
it. Thank you, Amanda Lam there on the
latest. You mentioned the upgrades from
Goldman and Bank of America. Think we
should call them what they are
markettomarket just a little bit, right?
Both their year-end price targets were
below where the market is right now.
They're marketing to market. It's
slightly above where we are right now,
at least when you look at Goldman Sachs.
Yeah. 63 and 66 of both of those banks.
Yeah.
So, you could say this is just marking
to market, but the day the timing is
remarkable. I mean, you have to just say
they're coming out with this on the same
day that we're reigniting the trade war
maybe, but the market ignoring it,
kicking the can, and it's just sort of
notable.
Credit to Chris Harvey of Wells Fargo.
Yeah. Just stuck with 7K.
Never changed his price target.
I thought that was great. By the way,
parenting tip, I'm going to start
sending letters. If they misbehave, I'm
gonna start to the kids
stating the same thing just with an
extension.
Exactly.
You think the behavior is gonna change?
Thank you for attention to this matter.
I think I hope so.
You think they're going to adapt and
adjust to
You have until September 1st to change
your behavior.
See how that works out. Or back to
school for you, which is where they're
going anyway. From New York City, we've
got a new deadline. It's August 1st.
From New York, good morning.
[Music]